7 things the Holy Spirit will do for you 
INTRODUCTION
           5
Chapter
Chapter
Chapter
Chapter
Chapter
1.
He Will Bring You God’s Presence
           9
2.
He Will Teach You
         15
3.
He Will Bring You Ability To Produce
Righteousness
         29
4.
He Will Give You Rest
         39
5.
He Will Restore, Renew And Refresh You      43
6.
He Will Turn Your Wilderness Into A
Fruitful Place
         55
7.          He Will Bring Excellence Into Your Life          65
8.
Be Filled With The Spirit!
         71
Introduction
Introduction
Introduction
Introduction
Introduction
The greatest thing that God has done for us is
to give us the Holy Spirit. It is for Him to pour out the
Holy Spirit upon us and make it possible in our day
to have the Holy Spirit in our lives. The Holy Spirit is
the Almighty Spirit of God. He’s the One Who
communicates the presence of God. So many
Christians have never really known the importance
of that. That’s what made Jesus ‘the Christ.’ It was
8
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
the Spirit’s indwelling that made Him who He was.
That’s the Spirit that makes us children of God today.
The Holy Spirit is the Third Person of the Trinity
revealed to the Christian. He is one with the Father
and the Son (1 John 5:7). He is neither less important
nor less powerful. He is God and co-equal with the
Father and the Son.
Right from the beginning of the Scriptures, we’re
introduced to the Person of the Holy Spirit; and
throughout the Scriptures, we’re further acquainted
with Him, His power and His Person. In all of these,
His ministry is clearly revealed – not to exalt Himself,
but to lead us and reveal to us the Person of Jesus.
Ephesians 5:18:
Ephesians 5:18:
Ephesians 5:18:
Ephesians 5:18:
Ephesians 5:18:
“And be not drunk with wine, wherein
is excess; but be filled with the Spirit;”
The ministry of the Holy Spirit in the life of the
Christian is so vital. This is why Paul, by the Spirit,
gave us this all-important charge to continually be
filled with the Holy Spirit. He also prayed concerning
9
Introduction
the communion of the Holy Ghost in 2 Corinthians
13:14:
“The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ,
and the love of God, and the com-
munion of the Holy Ghost, be with
you all. Amen.”
This is talking about a relationship, a fellowship
with the Holy Spirit, for He is a person, and you can
maintain a relationship with Him. You can talk to
Him and commune with Him. A lot of us have missed
out on the blessings of such a communion because
we’ve not taken time to understand the Holy Spirit.
But when you know the Holy Spirit and recognize
the importance of communing with Him, you’ll
constantly desire to have the fullness of the Spirit,
and then you will experience the blessings of that
wonderful fellowship.
In this book, I have highlighted seven vital
blessings that the Holy Spirit brings into the life of
every child of God who has allowed Him to fill them
and occupy their vessels; seven blessings that will
10
bring an amazing transformation in your life as you
yield to the influence of the Holy Spirit!
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
This is the first thing the Holy Spirit does in
your life. He brings you God’s presence, and when
He does, you will no longer be in the dark.
The Holy Spirit has a beautiful identity. He is
called ‘The Angel of God’s presence.’ He is the One
Who brings us the presence of God and makes it
real to us.
Chapter  One
Chapter  One
Chapter  One
Chapter  One
Chapter  One
12
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
Isaiah 63: 9,10a:
“In all their affliction he was afflicted,
and the angel of his presence
the angel of his presence
the angel of his presence
the angel of his presence
the angel of his presence saved
them: in his love and in his pity he
redeemed them; and he bare them,
and carried them all the days of old.
But they rebelled, and vexed HIS
HOLY SPIRIT...”
Can you see that? That Holy Spirit mentioned in
verse 10 is called in verse 9 ‘The Angel of His
presence.’
In the Old Testament, He represented the Father
and the Bible calls Him ‘The Angel of His presence.’
The word ‘angel’ is translated from the word that also
means ‘messenger.’ In other words, He is the
Messenger or the Conveyor of God’s presence. He
is the One Who carries the presence of God from
place to place all over the world, and He brings that
presence to you now. That’s the reason we can know
Jesus is real; that’s the reason we can believe in the
Word of God. You may not have known this, but it’s
13
the truth.
When we pray, it’s the Holy Spirit Who makes
the divine presence real to our spirits, and then we
seem to ‘feel close’ to a living God. We are spiritually
overwhelmed by divine glory.
God is omnipresent, but His manifested presence
is not everywhere.
The Holy Spirit is the One Who manifests God’s
presence. He brings to us an awareness of the power
of God, and makes God’s presence real to us; and
that reality of His presence stirs up faith in us, which
is the necessary spark for the miraculous.
God’s presence in the life of the believer is very
important. David understood the importance of that
presence in his life. This is why he cried out to God
not to take His Spirit away from him, after he had
sinned with Bathsheba. He said in Psalm 51:11,
“Do not cast me away from Your
presence, And do not take Your Holy
Spirit from me” (NKJV).
(NKJV).
(NKJV).
(NKJV).
(NKJV).
He Will Bring You God’s Presence
14
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
From this Scripture, we see that there’s a con-
nection between the presence of God and the Holy
Spirit. However, no Christian need pray this prayer
now, even when they happen to fall into sin, because
the Holy Spirit has come to dwell in every believer,
and the Lord Jesus said He shall abide with us forever
(John 14:16).
Moses also recognized the importance of the
divine presence. He never wanted to move without
an assurance of God’s presence.
“And he (Moses) said unto him
(God), If thy presence go not with
me, carry us not up hence”
     (Exodus 33:15).
(Exodus 33:15).
(Exodus 33:15).
(Exodus 33:15).
(Exodus 33:15).
This is what our lives ought to be like. We must
always have an assurance of God’s presence with us
in everything we do, because in Him we live, and
move, and have our being (Acts 17: 28a).
The Holy Spirit is the Angel of God’s presence,
and God’s presence brings joy to the heart of the
15
believer. The Bible says in Psalms 16:11, “Thou wilt
shew me the path of life: in thy presence is fulness
of joy; at thy right hand there are pleasures for
evermore.”
Joy is the fruit of the human spirit and it is
independent of circumstances. You may have heard
some news or experienced some events that should
make you melancholic, but when you allow yourself
to be filled with the Holy Spirit, He’ll bring you God’s
presence where you’ll experience the fullness of joy
and pleasures evermore.
The Bible says, “For the kingdom of God is
not meat and drink; but righteousness, and peace,
and joy in the Holy Ghost” (Romans 14:17). The
Holy Spirit brings to us the joy of God’s presence.
He Will Bring You God’s Presence
“Now we have received, not the
spirit of the world, but the spirit which
is of God; that we might know the
things that are freely given to us of
God”
        (1 Corinthians 2:12).
        (1 Corinthians 2:12).
        (1 Corinthians 2:12).
        (1 Corinthians 2:12).
        (1 Corinthians 2:12).
This is one of the most profound things the Holy
Spirit does for us. When He comes upon your life,
Chapter T
Chapter T
Chapter T
Chapter T
Chapter Two
wo
wo
wo
wo
18
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
God ceases to be a mystery. He’s the One Who lets
you know who God is. He teaches you the Word of
God and guides you. You will never walk in the
wilderness of life anymore, because there will be light
all the time. Jesus said, “He that follows Me shall not
walk in darkness but he shall have the light of life”
(John 8:12).
HE R
 R
 R
 R
 REVEALS
EVEALS
EVEALS
EVEALS
EVEALS G
 G
 G
 G
 GOD
OD
OD
OD
OD’S W
 W
 W
 W
 WORD
ORD
ORD
ORD
ORD
TO Y
 Y
 Y
 Y
 YOU
OU
OU
OU
OU
The Holy Ghost unveils God’s Word to us; He
reveals the things of God to us.
In 1 Corinthians 2:14, we read that “...the natural
man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God; for
they are foolishness unto him; neither can he know
them, because they are spiritually discerned.”
The things of God can only be spiritually
understood. This is why you need the Holy Spirit in
your life. He will teach you and unveil the things of
God to your spirit.
19
Jesus said in John 14:26,
“But the Comforter, which is the
Holy Ghost, whom the Father will
send in my name, he shall teach you
all things, and bring all things to your
remembrance, whatsoever I have said
unto you.”
And also in John 16:13,
“Howbeit when he, the Spirit of
truth, is come, he will guide you into
all truth (reality): for he shall not
speak of himself; but whatsoever he
shall hear, that shall he speak: and
he will shew you things to come.”
The Comforter is the Spirit of truth, which means
the Spirit of reality. God’s Word is truth, it is reality,
and it is the Holy Spirit that guides you into that reality.
In other words, all the things you can see or relate to
in this world are but a shadow. If you want to know
reality, it has to be by the Holy Ghost. He has to
He Will Teach You
20
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
reveal the real things of life to you.
When the Holy Spirit comes into your life, He
will show you things to come; you will no longer be
in the dark. You will no longer walk in confusion but
live each day in the light. You will face the future
with faith and confidence. He is the Spirit of reality,
Hallelujah!
Now you can know the things that are given to
you of God; those things that God has made
available through His gospel. You can know them,
because His Spirit will enlighten you and then you
can take advantage of them. He will teach you God’s
Word and bring understanding to you.
1 Corinthians 2:9-13:
“But as it is written, Eye hath not
seen, nor ear heard, neither have
entered into the heart of man, the
things which God hath prepared for
them that love him. But God hath
revealed them unto us BY HIS
21
SPIRIT: for the Spirit searcheth all
things, yea, the deep things of God.
For what man knoweth the things of
a man, save the spirit of man which
is in him? even so the things of God
knoweth no man, but the Spirit of
God. Now we have received, not the
spirit of the world, but the spirit which
is of God; that we might know the
things that are freely given to us of
God. Which things also we speak, not
in the words which man’s wisdom
teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost
teacheth; comparing spiritual things
with spiritual.”
This is beautiful! God has given us the Holy Spirit
so that we do not remain in ignorance. We can know
the mind of God; we can understand the things of
the Spirit of God, because we have the Holy Spirit to
unveil God’s truth to us.
God is not trying to hide anything from us. Those
He Will Teach You
22
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
things which eyes haven’t seen, and ears haven’t
heard, and the minds of men haven’t comprehended;
those things which God has prepared for those who
love Him, are being revealed to us by His Spirit. God
is no longer a mystery to us. He can be a mystery to
those who don’t have His Spirit, but for the Christian
who has the Spirit of God, nothing is hidden
anymore.
God Himself said, “Neither will I hide my face
any more from them: for I have poured out my Spirit
upon the house of Israel...” (Ezekiel 39:29).
God was actually saying. “I cannot hide from
them any more because my Spirit is upon them.”
There’s an anointing the Spirit of God brings into
your life; and that anointing gives you insight into
the things of God. It opens the mind of God to you
and unveils the riches of His glory to you. God said,
“I will no longer hide my face from them,”because
of the outpouring of His Spirit, Hallelujah!
That outpouring is still on today. I feel sorry for
the man who doesn’t have the Holy Spirit, for we’re
23
living in a day when you cannot live without the
Holy Ghost.
But thanks be unto God because there’s an
opportunity today for every one to receive the
fullness of the Spirit.
Acts 2:17-18:
“And it shall come to pass in the last
days, saith God, I will pour out of
my Spirit upon all flesh: and your
sons and your daughters shall
prophesy, and your young men shall
see visions, and your old men shall
dream dreams: And on my servants
and on my handmaidens I will pour
out in those days of my Spirit, and
they shall prophesy:”
When the Holy Ghost comes into your life,
you will see visions and dreams. You will have
revelations, and you will no longer be in the dark.
The Holy Spirit will show you things to come. Before
He Will Teach You
24
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
things happen in your life,  you will know. You will
have a direction in life; you will know where you’re
going! Through the anointing of the Holy Spirit, you
will receive ideas, direction and guidance on what
to do in this world of turmoil. Divine wisdom will
come to you because of the anointing. Your mind
will be anointed to think and receive revelation; and
you will never run short of ideas as to what to do.
The anointing puts you over, because you now
belong in the Kingdom of wisdom and knowledge.
HE CAUSES YOU TO SEE
One very important aspect of the ministry of the
Holy Ghost is that He ‘causes us to see.’
John 16:8:
“And when he is come, he will reprove
the world of sin, and of righteousness,
and of judgment:”
The word ‘reprove’ is the same as ‘correct,’ and
it embraces a number of biblical expressions in its
25
meaning. Originally, it derives from two Latin terms
meaning ‘cause to see’ in the New Testament. The
words ‘reproof,’ ‘conviction’ and ‘illumination’ are
used to communicate the ministry of the Holy Spirit,
whereby He causes the individuals to ‘see’
(understand) truth.
A man without the Holy Ghost is a blind man.
He may not know it but that’s what blindness is all
about. A blind man is not just someone who cannot
see, he can see alright, but all he sees is darkness. It’s
the same thing in the realm of the spirit. A blind man
in the realm of the spirit is one who doesn’t know
the things of the spirit, he can’t see the things of the
Spirit of God. But when the Holy Spirit comes into
your life, you will no longer be blind because He
will cause you to see what others can’t see.
Every Christian needs to depend on this ministry
of the Holy Spirit to help him understand truth and
respond accordingly.
He Will Teach You
26
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
HE W
 W
 W
 W
 WILL
ILL
ILL
ILL
ILL S
 S
 S
 S
 SHOW
HOW
HOW
HOW
HOW Y
 Y
 Y
 Y
 YOU
OU
OU
OU
OU T
 T
 T
 T
 THINGS
HINGS
HINGS
HINGS
HINGS
TO C
 C
 C
 C
 COME
OME
OME
OME
OME AND
AND
AND
AND
AND G
 G
 G
 G
 GUIDE
UIDE
UIDE
UIDE
UIDE Y
 Y
 Y
 Y
 YOU
OU
OU
OU
OU
INTO
NTO
NTO
NTO
NTO A
 A
 A
 A
 ALL
LL
LL
LL
LL T
 T
 T
 T
 TRUTH
RUTH
RUTH
RUTH
RUTH
Isaiah 30:20–21:
“And though the Lord give you the
bread of adversity, and the water of
affliction, yet shall not thy teachers
be removed into a corner any more,
but thine eyes shall see thy teachers:
And thine ears shall hear a word
behind thee, saying, This is the way,
walk ye in it, when ye turn to the
right hand, and when ye turn to the
left.”
This is the work of the Spirit. He is your guide.
When you’re going the wrong way, you’ll hear His
voice telling you, “Stop, you’re going the wrong way,”
then He’ll take you in the right direction. You don’t
have to wonder and be confused at the crossroads
of life any more. If you have the Holy Spirit dwelling
27
in you, He will lead you in the right way to go.
1 John 2:27:
“But the anointing which ye have
received of him abideth in you, and
ye need not that any man teach you:
but as THE SAME ANOINTING
TEACHETH YOU OF ALL
THINGS, and is truth, and is no
lie, and even as it hath taught you,
ye shall abide in him.”
What does it mean by “…ye need not that any
man teach you...?”
Ephesians 4:11,12:
“And He gave some apostles; and
some prophets; and some, evangelists;
and some, pastors and teachers. For
the perfecting of the saints, for the
work of the ministry, for the edifying
He Will Teach You
28
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
of the body of Christ.”
Didn’t He just say you don’t need anybody to
teach you? So why is He anointing teachers? Is God
contradicting Himself? Well, this lets you know He’s
not telling you nobody can teach you. What he’s
saying is that only the unction can teach you; only
the teacher anointed by God’s Spirit can teach you
under the unction. This means, therefore, that it’s the
unction that’s teaching you when a teacher of the
Word teaches you. God will not contradict Himself.
There are several ways that the unction teaches
you. The same unction teaches you all things. You
will not be ignorant anymore because He will teach
you. You may not have been to college but He will
teach you. You will no longer be an ignoramus when
the Holy Ghost lives in you. He becomes your
Teacher. Jesus said when the Spirit of truth comes,
He shall teach you all things. He didn’t say ‘some
things,’ but ALL THINGS. Glory to God!
Anything in this life, anything about life,
29
anything about God, ANYTHING at all, the Holy
Ghost can teach you if you will ask or let Him. He
will open up the Word of God to you and unveil the
realities of God to you. He will be your Teacher. He
will let you know what to do.
When the Holy Ghost takes over your life, you
will be different.
He Will Teach You
When the Holy Spirit comes to live within you,
He will come with the ability to produce
righteousness. Righteousness is the nature of God,
which when imparted to the human spirit, produces
the rightness of God in the human spirit. It gives man
right standing with God; it gives him the ability to
stand in the presence of God without a sense of guilt,
inferiority or condemnation. It means a rightness in
Chapter Three
Chapter Three
Chapter Three
Chapter Three
Chapter Three
32
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
God. The righteousness of God is wrought in you.
When the Holy Spirit comes into your life, He
will give you the ability to do things right, to change
things, to make things work.
Acts 1:8:
“But ye shall receive power, after that
the Holy Ghost is come upon you:
and ye shall be witnesses unto me both
in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and
in Samaria, and unto the uttermost
part of the earth.”
Power is the dynamic ability to cause changes.
You receive the dynamic ability to cause changes
when the Holy Ghost comes into your life. That
dynamic ability is a power that works within you.
Like a dynamo, it has the ability to reproduce itself.
This means that if the circumstances of your life
don’t favour you, you can change them. This is one
of the rights of a child of God. If you’re a child of
33
God, you should never be disadvantaged in life.
Never!
Jesus said, “Ye shall receive power after that the
Holy Ghost is come upon you.” That power is the
dynamic ability to cause changes. You can effect
changes in your family, in your body, at your work,
in your finances, in your city; you can effect changes
everywhere! He said you shall receive power – the
dynamic ability to cause changes – when you receive
the Holy Ghost.
Jesus said, “…I will come to you” (John 14:18).
Here, He wasn’t referring to the rapture or second
advent but to the Holy Ghost, because He said He
would ask the Father to send us another Comforter,
One just like Him, called alongside to help us; and
that One is the Holy Ghost. This means that you will
not be helpless. Nothing should happen in your life
to make you say, “I am helpless.”
Jesus said you would receive the dynamic ability
to cause changes. If you want things to change in
your life, your spouse, your children, your job, your
school, your country, in anything or anywhere, you
He Will Bring You Ability To Produce Righteousness
34
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
will receive the dynamic ability to cause those
changes when the Holy Ghost comes upon your life!
We’re not helpless. The trouble is that a lot of
people don’t have the Holy Ghost, and then, a lot of
those who have the Holy Ghost don’t even know
who He really is and what He can do for them. They
haven’t put that power to work.
Now it’s up to you to put the power of the Holy
Ghost in you to work everywhere and in everything
you want to see changes. All you need is to decide
the changes you want and let Him work through you.
When that anointing of God’s Spirit starts
working through you, there’s no demon hatched out
of hell that can stand it. This is the way it should be
for every child of God. You’ve got to have the
anointing of God’s Spirit working through you and
in your life everyday.
Someone may say, “I always have unclean
dreams. Every time I close my eyes to sleep, it’s one
nightmare or the other. I don’t know what to do
about it.”
35
What you need is the fullness of the Spirit.
This is the reason for prayer. When you pray you
can be full of the Spirit. There are things you can’t
do until the Spirit of God helps you do them. The
Bible tells us that Jesus Christ offered Himself to God
through the Holy Ghost (Hebrews 9:14).
After He received the Holy Ghost at the River
Jordan, Jesus was led up of the Spirit into the
wilderness to be tempted. The Holy Ghost got a hold
of Jesus and took Him to the wilderness, not to have
a great time, but to be tempted of the devil.
The Holy Ghost can take charge of your life, and
when He does, it doesn’t matter what the process is,
it’s the product that counts. Remember, His thoughts
towards you are thoughts of peace and not of evil
(Jeremiah 29:11).
Understand this: it doesn’t matter what happens
to you, if you’re in the will of God, you can rejoice!
No matter how deep they take you, He will go down
there with you. The Bible lets us know that in Israel’s
affliction, He was afflicted (Isaiah 63:9). It also assures
He Will Bring You Ability To Produce Righteousness
36
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
that even when you go through the water, it will not
overflow you; and when you go through the fire, you
shall not be burned (Isaiah 43:2), Hallelujah!
Do you remember the three Hebrew boys,
Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego? King
Nebuchadnezzar ordered that they should be
thrown into the fiery furnace because they refused
to bow down to his image (Daniel 3:18- 20). When
they were thrown into the furnace, only their bonds
were burnt up, but their clothes were still on, and
they stood up on their feet in the furnace.
King Nebuchadnezzar was shocked at what he
saw and asked his counselors, “Do you see what I
see? How many men did we throw bound into the
fire?”
They answered him, “Three, sir.”
“But I see four men, loose, walking in the fire
unhurt; and the fourth one is like the Son of God,”
he said (Daniel 3:24).
That fourth One is still with us today. He is called
the Angel of His presence. When you go through
37
the fire, He’s with you. When you go through the
water, He’s right there. When you have trouble on
the job or in your home, He’s right there. If you have
trouble with your finances, He’s right there with you!
He’s not in there to suffer with you through that
situation. No! He’s there to help you change it. He’s
there to bring you out of the mess!
There are Christians who are struggling to stop
drinking alcohol. They want to stop but they’ve
found it so difficult. Some others may have problems
with food. They don’t have any control over their
appetite for food. Yet for some others, their problem
is sleep. They can sleep anywhere and everywhere.
They can’t sit for five minutes without falling asleep.
Sometimes, it seems that there are as many problems
as there are Christians.
You may even be reading this book now, and
you know you’re in one such situation. Hold on!
There’s a Spirit in you, the One Whom you haven’t
given the right of way. There’s a Spirit in you that
has a ministry. He was sent for a purpose. He was
He Will Bring You Ability To Produce Righteousness
38
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
not just sent to help you talk in tongues. Now, that
in itself is a miracle, but it must extend to other areas
of your life. When you’re speaking in those tongues,
you don’t even know which word is coming out next,
yet He takes charge of your tongue and makes you
speak those blissful words. The One Who makes you
speak in those tongues that you never learnt can take
charge of your legs; He can take charge of your hands
and take charge of your eyes, Hallelujah!
The Spirit of God can actually make you do the
things God wants you to do in your life. He gives
you not only the will, but also the ability.
Philippians 2:13 says “…it is God which worketh
in you both to will and to do of His good pleasure.”
Not only does He make you willing, He can make
you do. But many of us haven’t come to that point
in our lives with the Holy Ghost. We’re still trying to
do a lot of things on our own, trying and failing. But
that struggle will come to an end when you recognize
the working of the Holy Spirit in your life and give
Him the right of way.
39
Jesus said, “…Follow me, and I will make you
fishers of men” (Matthew 4:19). He didn’t say,
“Follow Me and try to become,” He said, “I will make
you.”
He is the One with the ability. The responsibility
of making you become rests with Him. All you’re
required to do is follow Him. There’s no extra effort
needed on God’s side, and no extra effort on your
side. All that is needed is for God to say it and for
you to agree with what He has said about you.
He Will Bring You Ability To Produce Righteousness
The Holy Spirit will give you rest. I don’t know
how to say this strongly enough, but when the Holy
Spirit comes, He will give you rest from trouble, He
will give you rest from war. There could be wars raging
within us sometimes. We’re troubled because there’s
bad news coming from afar; we’re troubled because
of the circumstances of our lives, and because of
things that are happening to us. We’re troubled
Chapter F
Chapter F
Chapter F
Chapter F
Chapter Four
our
our
our
our
42
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
because of one thing or the other. Some are even
troubled about their jobs, they’re afraid of losing what
they have. There may be so much trouble, so much
war in and around you, but He will give you rest in
your soul.
Jesus said, “Come unto me all ye that labour and
are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke
upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly
in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls
(Matthew 11:28-29).
The Holy Ghost is the One carrying on in the
earth today the ministry which Jesus started. And just
as Jesus said, He will give you peace, not as the world
gives, but peace in the midst of turmoil. He will give
you rest from struggle, He will give you rest for your
soul.
John 14:27:
“Peace I leave with you, my peace I
give unto you: not as the world giveth,
give I unto you. Let not your heart
43
be troubled, neither let it be afraid.”
When the Holy Spirit dwells in you in His
fullness, He will give you peace and rest, and you
will no longer be afraid or troubled.
Isaiah 32:17,18:
“And the work of righteousness shall
be peace; and the effect of
righteousness 
quietness 
and
assurance for ever. And my people
shall dwell in a peaceable habitation,
and in sure dwellings, and in quiet
resting places;”
The righteousness of God in your life produces
peace, quietness, and assurance in you. People will
wonder at you because they can’t fathom how you
can have so much peace and rest when everything
seems to have gone wrong. But this is one of the things
you enjoy when the Holy Ghost comes into your life
He Will Give You Rest
44
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
and you allow Him to work in you.
There are people who can’t sleep at night, but if
the Holy Spirit lives inside you, you will have rest in
the midst of the troubles and storms of life.
The Bible says, “When men are cast down, then
thou shalt say, There is lifting up…” (Job 22:29). You
will be the one to lift others up. Because you have
His peace, it will flow from you to others and you
will help the fearful and downtrodden.
Jesus is the One Who said, “Peace, be still,” and
there was a great calm. He hushed the sea to sleep
(Mark 4:39). He can calm your spirit and  bring rest
to your soul. He said, “Peace I leave with you, my
peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I
unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it
be afraid” (John 14:27). And you know something?
If the world can’t give this peace, the world can’t
take it from you. You will have rest for your soul!
45
The Holy Spirit will restore you, renew you
and refresh you. You will never run out of power,
you will never run out of ability. The psalmist said,
“The LORD is my shepherd; I shall
not want. He maketh me to lie down
in green pastures...”
       (P
  (P
  (P
  (P
  (Psalm 23:1-2).
salm 23:1-2).
salm 23:1-2).
salm 23:1-2).
salm 23:1-2).
Chapter Five
Chapter Five
Chapter Five
Chapter Five
Chapter Five
46
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
This particular Psalm inspires me greatly. David
had a revelation of the Holy Spirit that was
uncommon to the time in which he lived. He
recognized the place and the working of the Spirit
of God in his life. He said, “The Lord is my shepherd.”
Over in 2 Corinthians 3:17, the Bible tells us
that “the Lord is that Spirit.” This is the Holy Ghost,
He is the Shepherd and Bishop of your soul (1 Peter
2:25). He guides you and pilots your life. He leads
you to the green pastures and makes you lie there.
This means that He brings you to a place of plenty
and causes you to abide there. And in that place of
plenty, you will have peace, because he also said,
“...he leadeth me beside still waters.
He restoreth my soul: he leadeth me
in the paths of righteousness for his
name’s sake. Yea, though I walk
through the valley of the shadow of
death, I  will fear no evil: for thou art
with me; thy rod and thy staff they
47
comfort me”
      (P
      (P
      (P
      (P
      (Psalm 23: 2-4).
salm 23: 2-4).
salm 23: 2-4).
salm 23: 2-4).
salm 23: 2-4).
Yes, He will restore you; He will renew you; He
will refresh you!
Ephesians 2:10:
“For we are God’s [own] handiwork
(His workmanship), recreated in
Christ Jesus, [born anew] that we
may do those good works which God
predestined (planned beforehand) for
us [taking paths which He prepared
ahead of time], that we should walk
in them [living the good life which He
prearranged and made ready for us
to live]”
                    (The Amplified Bible).
In other words, the Holy Ghost will take charge
of your circumstances. He can handle your day. You
may have met with people that you shouldn’t have
met in your life. You may have found yourself in a
place you should never have been in your life. You
He Will Restore, Renew And Refresh You
48
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
may even be in a job you should never have taken
up in your life, or have friends that you were never
supposed to meet in your life.
This is all possible when you walk in your own
strength and without His guidance. He said, “taking
paths which He prepared ahead of time that we
should walk in them, living the good life which He
prearranged and made ready for us to live.” This is
the life He has brought us into. He can handle your
life. You’re not a child of chance. The people you
meet are not supposed to come into your world as
an accident.
The best place to be is in God’s perfect will for
your life. When you’re in God’s perfect will, it doesn’t
matter what you face; it doesn’t matter how big the
giant is; it doesn’t matter how high the mountain is;
it doesn’t matter how deep the valley is, you’re more
than a conqueror. No wonder David said, “ Yea
though I walk through the valley of the shadow of
death, I fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and
thy staff they comfort me” (Psalm 23:4).
49
The Holy Ghost is here to help you. He has
already pre-arranged the circumstances of your life.
He can take care of your circumstances, He can take
care of everything about your life. He knows what
to put out of your life. He knows what to do about
the thoughts that come to you. He says He will cause
you to do His will. This is why every child of God
must have the Holy Ghost. You need the fullness of
the Holy Ghost in your life.
In 2 Corinthians 4:16, He said, “For which cause
we faint not; but though our outward man perish, yet
the inward man is renewed day by day.” Yes, you
can be renewed everyday by the Word of God and
the working of the Holy Spirit.
Psalm 103:5:
“Who satisfieth thy mouth with good
things; so that thy youth is renewed
like the eagle’s.”
He says He will renew your youth as the eagle’s.
The eagle is a very unique bird. It sheds its feathers
He Will Restore, Renew And Refresh You
50
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
as it grows, and new feathers take the place of the
old ones. The Holy Ghost will renew your youth,
your strength and vitality, like the eagle renews itself.
He will make you like the tree spoken of in Psalm
1:3:
“And he shall be like a tree planted
by the rivers of water, that bringeth
forth his fruit in his season; his leaf
also shall not wither; and whatsoever
he doeth shall prosper.”
When the Holy Spirit lives in you, He will restore
you, He will renew you and He will refresh you.
I was watching Kenneth Hagin at age eighty,
dancing all over the platform, running by the power
of the Holy Ghost. AT AGE EIGHTY! But then I’ve
seen some seventy-year-olds, even sixty-year-olds
who can’t stand straight. They’ve become so feeble
and shaky, and they say, “You know I’m an old man
now.” But at eighty years old, Papa Hagin was still
running, he was still jumping, he was still shouting
51
and singing! Why? It’s because of the Holy Ghost!
At age 120, the Bible records that Moses’ eyes
were not dim nor his physical stature abated
(Deuteronomy 34:7). He wasn’t ready to die. God
had to tell him, “Moses, go up the mountain and
die!” (Deuteronomy 32:48-50).
And you know what? The man walked up the
mountain and after he had seen all the land God
had promised the children of Israel, he said, “Okay
Lord, I’m ready.”
God said, “Alright then, go ahead and die” and
Moses laid down and died. That’s what the Bible says
about Moses (Deuteronomy 34:1-5).
He was 120 years of age, yet he wasn’t shaking,
he wasn’t sitting in the rocking chair, looking at
everybody passing by and saying, “I’m retired now.”
No sir, not Moses! At that age he still had so much
strength that he could climb up and down the
mountains and see all the land of Israel for miles and
miles around with his unaided eyes.
The One you serve is called the Ancient of days.
He Will Restore, Renew And Refresh You
52
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
If you’re alive at seventy, eighty or even more, you’re
just beginning in life. Moses started his ministry at
the age of eighty. It’s time to serve God. Don’t go
back to the village and sleep off. No, if you go back
to the village, keep preaching Jesus. If you have gray
hair on your head, shake it for Jesus!
Don’t expect to die. Don’t look at the grave
and say, “I’m going down there soon.” No way! If
you want to die, you tell everybody, “I want to die.”
Don’t die by accident, don’t die by any gunshot,
don’t die for anybody, because somebody already
died for you and everybody else, so you don’t die
until you choose to  die.
The Holy Spirit will restore you, He will renew
you, He will refresh you. Everyday when you get up
in the morning, say, “Thank God, I’m refreshed, I’m
stronger than ever!”
Think about Caleb. He said, “Forty five years ago
God made me a promise…” now he was eighty-five,
but he said, “I’m as strong this day as I was forty five
years ago, both for war, for going out and coming
in” (Joshua 14:6-13).
53
Jesus said, “I will pray the Father and He shall
give you another Comforter.” In the Greek, that was
rendered ‘Allos Parakletos’ which means “another
one that is exactly like Me, to go along with you.”
Jesus meant another One that is exactly like Him,
called to go with you, to travel alongside you. He
looks like Jesus, He talks like Him, He loves like Him.
He will help you like Jesus would and be with you
just as Jesus said.
The Holy Spirit is your Strengthener. When
you’re out of your own strength, there’s another
strength working on the inside of you that you can
draw on.
You may think you can’t take the pressure any
more, but if you have the Holy Ghost, happy are you.
When your strength fails, the devil may think
he’s done with you and you’re out, but you’re not
out, for that’s when the STANDBY takes over and
causes His strength to rise within you. Then you begin
to speak words of power and the devil can’t
understand it.
He Will Restore, Renew And Refresh You
54
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
No wonder Paul said, “But we have this treasure
in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power
may be of God, and not of us. We are troubled on
every side, yet not distressed; we are perplexed, but
not in despair; Persecuted, but not forsaken; cast
down, but not destroyed;” (2 Corinthians 4:7-9).
Psalms 16:11:
“Thou wilt shew me the path of life:
in thy presence is fulness of joy; at
thy right hand there are pleasures for
evermore.”
Acts 3:19b:
“...times of refreshing shall come from
the presence of the Lord;”
God’s presence brings joy to the heart of the
believer and refreshes him. It doesn’t matter how
drained you may feel spiritually, mentally or
physically, you can be refreshed in God’s presence.
In His presence there’s no room for spiritual
55
drowsiness, no room for dryness, no room to be cast
down, because the Holy Spirit stirs up the joy of God
in our hearts.
He Will Restore, Renew And Refresh You
This is one of the most beautiful evidences of
the presence and influence of the Holy Ghost in your
life.
Isaiah 32:15,16:
“Until the Spirit be poured upon us
from on high, and the wilderness be a
fruitful field, and the fruitful field be
counted for a forest. Then judgment
Chapter Six
Chapter Six
Chapter Six
Chapter Six
Chapter Six
58
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
shall dwell in the wilderness, and
righteousness remain in the fruitful
field.”
This lets us know that we become productive
when the Spirit of God comes upon our lives. The
anointing of God’s Spirit makes us productive, it
makes us fruitful. The anointing affects our lives and
causes these things to happen in us. Things may go
bad and cause your life to be a wilderness, but that
is until the Spirit is poured upon you from on high. It
is the Spirit that changes things.
This Holy Spirit is the One Who unveils to us
the glories and blessings of God the Father. He is the
One Who takes us into the presence of the Father
and makes the blessings of God a reality in our lives.
I wish that many people would understand what
the anointing does. Remember, the anointing of
God’s Spirit has to do with the presence of God.  So
when Isaiah 32:15 says, “Until the Spirit be poured
upon us from on high,”  it means, “Until the anointing
59
comes upon us.”
But we’re not those waiting for the anointing to
come upon us. If you have received the Holy Spirit
of God, then the Spirit has been poured upon you
from on high. When the Spirit is poured upon us from
on high, we don’t need to struggle to make the
wilderness become anything, it just becomes!
You may look at your life and there’s so much
unproductivity. You may look at your life and
wonder, How far have I gone, what have I achieved
in my life? Maybe when you look at your home, it’s
all a desert, your finances are no better, your health
is deteriorating by the day and your life seems
unproductive in every way.
Your life can only remain a wilderness until
there’s an outpouring of the Spirit upon you.
Isaiah 32:13,14,15a:
“Upon the land of my people shall
come up thorns and briers; yea, upon
all the houses of joy in the joyous city:
He Will Turn Your Wilderness Into A Fruitful Place
60
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
Because the palaces shall be forsaken;
the multitude of the city shall be left;
the forts and the towers shall be for
dens for ever, a joy of wild asses, a
pasture of flocks; UNTIL THE
SPIRIT BE POURED UPON
US FROM ON HIGH...”
There could be dryness and unproductivity in
every way, the situation may be as hopeless as it
could ever be. But these can only go on until there’s
a release of God’s presence.
When the Holy Ghost comes to live inside you,
He will turn your wilderness into a fruitful field; water
will spring up from your desert. You will experience
productivity and growth in every area of your life.
You will move forward. There will be a bursting forth
on your right hand and on your left.
You may be thinking right now, I’m not
experiencing dryness in my life; my life is not
unproductive. Well, thank God for you. But there’s
61
something better. Your fruitful field can become a
forest. Read Isaiah 32:15-16 again and you will
observe this. This means you can be more productive
spiritually and financially. Your life can affect more
people for Jesus. You can move from experiencing
divine healing to divine health. There’s always
something better for you in Christ!
Isaiah 44:2-4:
“Thus saith the LORD that made
thee, and formed thee from the womb,
which will help thee; Fear not, O
Jacob, my servant; and thou,
Jeshurun, whom I have chosen. For I
will pour water upon him that is
thirsty, and floods upon the dry
ground: I will pour my spirit upon thy
seed, and my blessing upon thine
offspring: And they shall spring up
as among the grass, as willows by the
water courses.”
He Will Turn Your Wilderness Into A Fruitful Place
62
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
This should gladden your heart. God is interested
in helping you. He wants to help you lead a better
life.
‘Water’ in verse 3 refers to the Holy Spirit. When
you thirst for the fullness of the Holy Ghost, you will
receive it. God said He would pour His Spirit upon
your seed, and His blessing upon your offspring.
These do not refer only to your children. Your
seed is anything that proceeds from you. Your
thoughts, your ideas, your job, and your money are
all your seed, for they represent you. And when God
pours His Spirit upon your seed, you become more
productive than ever before. They will spring up as
among the grass and as willows by the water courses.
No wonder the Lord Jesus said, “...If any man thirst,
let him come unto me, and drink. He that believeth
on me, as the scripture hath said, out of his belly
shall flow rivers of living water (John 7:37-38).
He not only makes you productive, He causes
your productive life to affect others positively. If rivers
of living water will flow out of your belly, surely they
63
must affect you and those around you.
Yes! When the Spirit comes, He turns your
wilderness into a fruitful field and your fruitful field
into a forest.
Get ready for increased productivity in your life!
Ezekiel 36:27-29:
“And I will put my spirit within you,
and cause you to walk in my
statutes, and ye shall keep my
judgements, and do them. And ye
shall dwell in the land that I gave to
your fathers; and ye shall be my
people, and I will be your God. I will
also save you from all your
uncleannesses: and I will call for the
corn, and will increase it, and lay no
famine upon you.”
Understand what God is talking about here. He
says, “I will put My Spirit within you, and I will get
rid of the mess from your life, and then I will call for
He Will Turn Your Wilderness Into A Fruitful Place
64
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
the corn.”  This is prosperity. When the Holy Ghost
starts living in you, He’ll call for the corn. There are a
lot of God’s people who are broke in their lives. There
are too many of God’s people who’re walking empty
and they’re wondering why. But prosperity comes
through the Holy Ghost!
In the Church of Jesus Christ, there’s been a lot
of preaching about prosperity. We’ve said, “When
you give, God will give back to you.” But you see, it
doesn’t end there. That’s not the exact truth, it’s only
half-truth. Truth has to be all-truth. So many of God’s
people give; for example, they put in their offering
and it doesn’t seem to come back to them multiplied
like God said it would. The problem is with them.
Let me tell you this: When you sow your seed, if
the rain doesn’t fall and there’s no water, something
will go wrong with the seed. The Bible says, “Ask ye
of the LORD rain in the time of the latter rain; so the
LORD shall make bright clouds, and give them
showers of rain, to every one grass in the field”
(Zechariah 10:1). This is talking about the Holy
65
Ghost!
When you sow your seed and give to God, if it’s
going to come back, it’s going to be as a result of
the rain, and your prayer is what makes the rain to
fall.
This is the mistake a lot of Christians have made.
They do not pray, they just give and they expect.
That’s gambling in the Church, that’s using God’s
Word for gambling! When you give to God, you must
recognize that He is Almighty God. Then you pray
in the Holy Ghost and water your seed; you believe
in your seed; you believe in the God that brings it
back; you believe there’s a harvest from your seed.
When you pray in the Holy Ghost, you’re
watering your seed and your heart, which is the
ground of faith. When you do that, you’ll have such
a great harvest, there’ll be no room enough to take it
all, praise God!
But we just wait there and say it’s going to come
back, and when it doesn’t, we feel frustrated. There’s
no difference between that and the gambler out there
He Will Turn Your Wilderness Into A Fruitful Place
on the street. But when you start praying about it,
that’s where the difference is.
God is not a computer; He’s a rational being and
we must relate with Him as such. When we give to
Him, we talk to Him, we relate with Him and expect
from Him and pray to Him. There’s a relationship
involved in this. But when that relationship is not
there, there would certainly be problems.
64
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
If you believe in Jesus Christ with all of your
heart and believe in His written Word, then believe
also in the Holy Ghost, and He will bring excellence
into your life.
Daniel had an excellent spirit.
Daniel 6:3:
“Then this Daniel was preferred above
Chapter Seven
Chapter Seven
Chapter Seven
Chapter Seven
Chapter Seven
68
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
the presidents and princes, because
an excellent spirit was in him; and
the king thought to set him over the
whole realm.”
You can have an excellent spirit. The Holy Ghost
is the Spirit of excellence. When He comes into your
life, there will be excellence in your mentality, there
will be excellence in your work. There will be
excellence in your health. There will be excellence
in everything that concerns you, just as the Psalmist
said, “The Lord will perfect that which concerneth
me...” (Psalm 138:8).
The Bible tells us in 3 John 2, “Beloved, I wish
above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in
health, even as thy soul prospereth.”
This is the Spirit of excellence at work. Excellence
means that you’re prospering spiritually,
mentally,physically and in every area of life. What
does it mean to prosper? It means to do well, to have
over and above, to walk in a high level with God. It
means to be in a high class with God, where you
69
can think like God and live like Him.
The Holy Spirit will bring excellence into your
life, and your health will also be excellent. It will not
be fever one morning, high blood pressure the next
day. No! He will bring excellence into your life.
Psalm 1:3:
“And he shall be like a tree planted
by the rivers of water, that bringeth
forth his fruit in his season; his leaf
also shall not wither; and whatsoever
he doeth shall prosper.”
When you have this Holy Spirit in your life, you
will be like a tree that is planted by the rivers of water.
You will bring forth fruit in season, that means, every
time you’re supposed to bring forth fruit, it will not
fail. In other words, there’ll never be a time when
you’re unable to receive a harvest. He says also, “Your
leaves shall not wither, and lastly, “Whatsoever you
do shall prosper.”
He Will Bring Excellence Into Your Life
70
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
Anything you put your hand upon to
do will turn into success. Why? Be-
cause the Holy Spirit – the Spirit of ex-
cellence – is in your life.
Ezekiel 36:30-32:
“And I will multiply the fruit of the
tree, and the increase of the field, that
ye shall receive no more reproach of
famine among the heathen. Then shall
ye remember your own evil ways, and
your doings that were not good, and
shall lothe yourself in your own sight
for your iniquities and for your abomi-
nations. Not for your sakes do I this,
saith the Lord GOD, be it known
unto you: be ashamed and con-
founded for your own ways, O house
of Israel.”
Can you see what God is saying here? He’s
saying, “I’m doing this, not because you paid the
71
price or you did something about it. It’s not because
you look good; it’s not because you prayed so much;
it’s not because of anything you did, but I’m doing it
because it’s been My plan all along.”
Now read what He says next:
“Thus saith the Lord GOD; In the
day that I shall have cleansed you
from all your iniquities I will also cause
you to dwell in the cities, and the
wastes shall be builded. And the deso-
late land shall be tilled, whereas it lay
desolate in the sight of all that passed
by. And they shall say, This land that
was desolate is become like the gar-
den of Eden; and the waste and deso-
late and ruined cities are become
fenced, and are inhabited. Then the
heathen that are left round about you
shall know that I the LORD build
the ruined places, and plant that that
was desolate: I THE LORD HAVE
SPOKEN IT, AND I WILL DO
He Will Bring Excellence Into Your Life
IT.”
                    (Ezekiel 36:33-36).
             (Ezekiel 36:33-36).
             (Ezekiel 36:33-36).
             (Ezekiel 36:33-36).
             (Ezekiel 36:33-36).
God has said, “I will do it!” This is what He wants
to do for you. This is what His Spirit will accomplish
in your life, if you let Him.
70
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
Every one that has come to God and is born
again must be filled with the Spirit. You must have
the Holy Spirit, otherwise, you cannot live the God-
life.
If you’ve not received the Holy Ghost, lift up your
hands right now and say, “Father, I receive the Holy
Ghost. I receive Him into my spirit, I receive Him
Chapter Eight
Chapter Eight
Chapter Eight
Chapter Eight
Chapter Eight
74
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You
into my soul, I receive Him into my body, I receive
Him into every fibre of my being, every bone of my
body, every cell of my blood!”
If the Spirit of Him that raised up Jesus from the
dead dwells in you, He that raised up Christ from
the dead shall also quicken, (that is, vitalize), your
mortal body (Romans 8:11).
This is Paul’s recipe for health. If you had trouble
in your body, you will say, “Father, this body is now
yours, it is the temple of the Holy Ghost. Come and
dwell in this body.” And I tell you if He comes to live
within you, every devil will have to leave your body,
every pain will have to vacate your body, every
infirmity will have to go. It doesn’t matter what’s gone
wrong with your body, this is what you need.
When Paul said, “Be filled with the Spirit,” he
wasn’t referring to water rising up, what he meant
brings to mind John the Baptist’s words when the
people told him they found Jesus baptizing. John said
“I told you before that I’m not the Christ; I told you
that He is before me and the latchet of His shoes I’m
not worthy to untie.” Then he said, “He must increase
75
but I must decrease” (John 3:30).
This is the principle. When Paul said, “Be filled
with the Spirit,” he wanted you to know that God is
in you. Let Him increase while you decrease. When
you speak, let it be the voice of God. When you
stretch forth your hand, let it be the hand of God.
Don’t see yourself as a mere man but as one who is
born of God and filled with Him. Let Him increase;
let His divinity in you increase and your humanity
decrease. Be filled with the Spirit. When you’re filled
with the Spirit, there’s boldness because divinity has
increased!.
He is in you, not as a cloud, not as some water
moving around in your belly; He’s not a ball of fire
burning on the inside. He is in you, working in you,
looking through your eyes, talking through your
mouth, touching through your hands, walking with
your legs and living in your body!
The Holy Spirit is committed to you as He was
committed to Jesus. He was committed to bringing
Him up, training Him and seeing to it that He
Be Filled With The Spirit!
succeeded in His ministry to the Father. If you will
let Him in your life, He will succeed with you. He is
experienced in His work. There’s no new problem
He cannot solve, and there’s One Who has gone
ahead of us as our example. His Name is Jesus. The
Holy Ghost worked with Him. And He will work with
you too, if you will only let Him.
Yes, these are seven things He will perfect in your
life today if you will only let Him, and you will let
Him now. Be filled with the Spirit!
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do For You