PLAY LIKE A MAN, WIN LIKE A WOMAN
What Men Know About Success that Women Need to Learn

═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

<details>
<summary>TABLE OF CONTENTS (Click to expand)</summary>

- Introduction
- Chapter 1: The Object of the Game
- Chapter 2: Four Ground Rules
  - Rule 1: You Are Who You Say You Are
  - Rule 2: One Prize Doesn't Fit All
  - Rule 3: Work Isn't a Sorority
  - Rule 4: You're Always a Mother, Daughter, Wife, or Mistress
- Chapter 3: Preparing to Play
- Chapter 4: How to Keep Score
- Chapter 5: Playing the Game - Fourteen Basic Rules for Success
- Chapter 6: Six Things Men Can Do at Work That Women Can't
- Chapter 7: He Hears, She Hears - Ten Gender-Bender Vocabulary Words
- Chapter 8: How to Enter and Exit the Game
- Chapter 9: The Final Two Rules

</details>

═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════


PREFACE

When it comes to role models, I was lucky. I grew up believing a woman could do anything—a conviction inherited from my mother.

On the surface, my mother seemed like a conventional woman, a suburban housewife who tended to her home and husband's career. But all the while she was sending me the message that a woman is responsible for her own life, and that she should live it to the fullest.

My mother certainly did. Even while taking excellent care of her own family, she helped care for an "adopted" younger brother and sister from a local institution for juvenile delinquents, she taught at the Jewish Guild for the Blind, and as a volunteer Red Cross ambulance driver, she drove physically and mentally disabled veterans to picnics and ball games.

The manager of a chain of millinery stores in the 1920s, my mother gave up her career for marriage. But she never surrendered her drive or her belief in herself. Throughout my life, she gave me two sets of instructions: I must be a good and proper woman and I could be anyone I wished.

I took that advice to heart. After leaving college in 1963, I began a successful career in politics, working on Capitol Hill and at the White House. But when I married, like my mother and most women of the time, I abandoned my career for my husband's. We moved to Atlanta and then to the Soviet Union. After returning to Georgia, where I raised my three children, I began doing freelance research and public relations for international corporations. In 1980, I joined CNN, which was beginning operations.

Eventually I got the opportunity to create the first central booking department for a network (booking means finding the experts who appear on television). When CNN International was created, my responsibilities were extended to that network as well. In 1987, I was made a vice president; two years later I created CNN&Co, the first television talk show to feature women discussing the major issues of the day rather than simply "women's issues." After a promotion to senior vice president, I co-developed TalkBackLive, the first interactive television news program, and in 1996 I was instrumental in creating Burden of Proof, the first daily legal talk show on network television.

Along the way, like my mother, I have tried to give my time to others. In 1997, the same year I was made executive vice president of CNN, President Clinton appointed me to the Commission on White House Fellows. I'm a member of the Committee of 200, the International Women's Forum, the Citizens Review Panel of the Juvenile Court of Atlanta, and have taught a seminar on gender issues in business at Atlanta's Emory University Business School. And I serve on the board of several universities and not-for-profit organizations.

I also have a daughter and two daughters-in-law, as well as a granddaughter, all of whom I hope will feel as optimistic about being a woman as my mother and I have felt.

If they do, they are lucky. Over the last two decades I have met thousands of women who have told me they feel lost in a workplace where the men generally rule and the women generally follow. I have always tried to give these women my best advice, and I've always hoped that somewhere I would encounter a group that didn't need what I had to say.

Then I was invited to address the female students and alumnae at Harvard Business School. I thought here, if anywhere, is the place where women have conquered the workplace.

I was wrong. The Harvard women had learned their academic lessons well and risen to high positions, but they felt isolated. They still complained that they often felt lost in the male-oriented workplace, and weren't sure how to cope.

So I decided to write down the gist of all the talks my mother had given me, and all I have passed along to my own daughter and daughters-in-law, as well as all the hundreds of speeches I have made to groups of women around the country. Although television is the great medium of the day, I feel the best way to pass along history is through the printed word. Personally, I believe that I'm only as good as what I have taken away from the last book I've read.

What I want you to take away from this book is the ability to work in an office atmosphere where you don't say, "I didn't get what I deserved today because, as a woman, I didn't know how to play the game."

My greatest desire is that someday we will eliminate the conversation about inequality between women and men at work, so that when we come to the workplace as peers, how we do our jobs will be all that matters.


═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

INTRODUCTION

Not long ago, I spoke at a small conference of successful businesswomen. Afterwards came the deluge, as one woman after another came up to me and asked for advice.

It always happens at these events. I speak, I listen, I hear the same words over and over—"baffled," "angry," "lost," "trapped," "stuck," "overwhelmed"—as each woman tells me she feels that she's gotten only so far in business and can't get any further.

One of the women at the conference told me she's a vice president at the Fortune 500 company where she's been working for two decades. In the last four years she has been given two new lofty-sounding titles, but no more power. She thinks she has hit a wall.

"Have you made it clear what you want?" I asked. "Have you taken any action?"

"No," she said.

Like so many women, she doesn't understand that when you have an ongoing serious complaint, you don't simply, meekly, live with it. You try to change it.

I told her that she needed to take action.

"What kind of action?" she asked.

"Anything," I said. "One action will lead to another. Talk to the CEO. Job hunt. Anything. Just do something!"

She sighed. "I don't understand. They know what a good job I am doing. Why don't they just reward me for it?"

With that attitude, she is losing the game.


Understanding the Game

If you don't read the directions manual when you start a game, you won't know how to proceed. You open the box, and in front of you are the board, markers, and dice, but you don't have a clue. If you're playing by yourself, you can improvise, but you may get it wrong. If you're playing with others, you can always follow their lead. But while they're focused on winning, you have to keep asking yourself if you're getting it right.

Whether that game is croquet, Monopoly, field hockey, or football, you have to understand the directions first. So why play the game of business any differently? Business is as much a game as any other board, individual, or team sports game. Consider all the metaphors like teamwork, making the right moves, playing your cards close to your chest, picking the best players for your team, rolling the dice, making a preemptive bid, raising the ante, finding the right captain, getting the team into position, hitting a home run.

The bottom line: When it comes to business, most women are at a disadvantage. We're forced to guess, to improvise, to bluff (which is not something we're always good at). This is why so few of us play the game well, and even fewer find it fulfilling.


Why Men Don't Need the Manual

And what about men? They don't read directions manuals, you say. True. They don't need to. The male mind invented the concept of directions. It wasn't that they deliberately ignored women, or disliked what women had to say. Rather, as business culture developed, few women were around to help. Men wrote all the rules because they wrote alone.

Women have made great strides in the last century. But that progress hasn't always been smooth, nor has it been straight ahead. Sometimes it's even retrogressed. During the labor shortage in World War II, for example, women were called in to perform men's jobs, and they did well. But when the war was over, Rosie the Riveter was sent home, and women had to wait decades for another chance.

The best you can say is that we've seen a kind of creeping incrementalism. Large numbers of women dot the current workplace, but like trees on a mountain, you'll see fewer and fewer of them as you climb higher in the executive landscape, until you reach a kind of timber line where you'll find about as many women as you'll find magnolias.


The Current Landscape

Fortune magazine recently ran a cover story on the 50 most powerful women in America. Nothing wrong with that. What I found worrisome was that the positions these women occupied—group presidents, vice presidents, founders of their own businesses—were not comparable to what a similar group of men would have held. All the men would have been CEO of large companies.

Women now account for over 46 percent of the total U.S. labor force, up from 29.6 percent in 1950. But as of 1999, only 11.9 of the 11,681 corporate officers in America's top 500 companies were women. In 1998 it was 11.2. If this pace continues, the number of women on top corporate boards won't equal the number of men until the year 2064.

Last year only 3.3 percent of these companies' top earners were women, with 98 women holding positions of the highest rank in corporate America, versus 1,202 men. And 496 out of 500 Fortune companies had male CEOs. Many of America's favorite companies—General Electric, Exxon, Compaq—have no women officers at all.

And even when women do make it to the top, we don't make as much money: Compensation for the top-paid female officers ranges from $210,001 to $4.96 million, whereas men earn from $220,660 to $31.29 million. All in all, top female executives earn on average 68 cents for every dollar a male executive earns.

The reality in today's business landscape: A woman is most likely to occupy a position of power when she started, or inherited, her own business. We're not going through the ranks and making it to the boss's office, and that's where the power lies in corporate America.


Nature and Nurture

What can—and should—a woman do? The answer would be easy if men and women were born with similar instincts and were similarly socialized. But that isn't the case. In fact, the general thinking among biogeneticists is that the social skills of males and females are inherently different. After that, according to the sociologists, they're raised in ways that accentuate that difference.

Let me tell you about my three children, two boys and a girl, whom I was committed to raising in a thoroughly nonsexist environment. Starting from day one, I could spot gender-based disparities among them. For instance, the way in which my sons and daughters nursed: My two boys behaved alike. They sucked until their stomachs were full, they burped, filled their diapers, and promptly went to sleep. It was a quick, effortless transaction. End of story.

My daughter gave a different performance. She sucked a little, she closed her eyes, then she'd touch, reach out, feel, suck, rest, try to open her eyes, burble, suck, touch, and so on. It was clear from the earliest moment that she was interested in some kind of social relationship with me. She wanted to know who I was and where she was. The boys just wanted to get their fill.

Nurture also has a say in gender distinctions. While teaching a course on gender issues in business at Emory University's Goizueta Business School, I asked my students about the games they played as children. What was the object of the game, how many other children participated, what lessons did they take away from them, and so on?

As usual, the sharpest young man was the first to raise his hand. "I always hung around with at least a half dozen other boys," he said. "We played games like pickup baseball, soccer, street hockey." He added, "The silliest question you asked was about the object of the game. We played to win. What else is there?"

"Oh, my God," interrupted a young woman. She explained how she usually played with one, or maybe two, other girls at a time, rather than a large group, and that they were always more concerned with building a friendship than with winning. Then she told us a story about playing a game of jacks with two friends at camp. When one of the girls was about to win, they all made up new rules so they wouldn't have to stop. "The object was to keep the game going as long as possible," she said. "And we wanted everyone to win."

The point is not that one of these perspectives is better than the other but that, from early childhood on, boys and girls play with different sets of rules. And because men created the rules in the game of business, and because women are only now trying to be effective competitors, we will prosper only when we are familiar with those rules.

None of this is to say that men are doing a bad, or a good, job. The business world is male-dominated. That is not a criticism nor a condemnation—it's a reality. Most of the time the male advantage isn't due to conscious discrimination against women. Like most people, men prefer to surround themselves with others who make them feel at ease. The relationship between men and women in business is not so different from that between a Caucasian Christian and an Indian Sikh, or an army general and a pacifist. Like attracts like. Differences create discomfort.

There is no denying that our society has created a division of labor between men and women, and historically one sex has tended to supervise certain tasks, and therefore write the rules. Recently, however, that division is becoming muddied, as both sexes are thinking about expanding the traditional boundaries, whether at work or at home.

For instance, some men are now staying home to raise children. The way we nurture our children in our culture is a female-determined system—these directions were written by women. It might turn out to be excellent for our children, however, if men have more of an impact on how kids are raised. We might have healthier children—just as we may have healthier corporations if women were to play a bigger role in them. The more heterogeneity there is at the table, the more likely we are to discover better solutions for everyone.

In the pages that follow you will find pointers to help you create your own personal directions manual for success. To become a player in the world of business, you have to know the prevailing rules that men play by—not because you must follow them word for word, but because you need to understand the playing field even if you eventually choose to make up your own game. It is not a level playing field if you don't know what to do on it.
═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

CHAPTER 1: THE OBJECT OF THE GAME

"Action is the antidote to despair."
— JOAN BAEZ, FOLK SINGER AND ACTIVIST

As the young man in my business class asked, isn't the object of the game to win?

But what is winning? Does it mean being the most powerful CEO? Does it mean being the one with the biggest bank account? Or is it the person who's the most feared?

For me, the object of the game is simply to feel great about what you do. That's the most important directive of all—because that's how you end up feeling fulfilled, and that's how you win.

I know for a fact that I have been successful because I've always loved my jobs. And believe me, these haven't all been well-paid positions in glamour industries—I've done everything from run the addressograph machine to fetch the coffee. But no matter what I've done, I've always been able to enjoy myself doing it.

For instance, when my kids were little, I took several years off to take care of them. To earn a little income along the way, I found a part-time job as a sales representative for a clothing company at Atlanta's semiannual merchandise mart. I then created a game out of it, seeing how much I could sell to stores even if they didn't need the line. I couldn't have done this forever, but while it lasted, it was fun. And I bought all my children's clothes (as well as mine) wholesale.

Similarly, not everything I've done on Capitol Hill or at CNN sounded exciting when it was originally proposed. But I've usually managed to make it so. For example, at one point my boss announced that I was going to revamp CNN's intern program. This came at a time when two of my children were already in college, and the last thing I wanted was to worry about other college-age kids. But I made the job challenging by taking on more responsibility than I had been offered, which turned out to involve recruitment and talent development. I gave my job so much visibility that when the new vice president of that area was announced, she was told to report to me.

So the ultimate winner in the game of business is not necessarily the person with the most power or the most money or the most fame. Rather, it's the person who loves his or her work. I know many miserable people with important titles. But I don't know anyone who loves her job who's miserable. It's that simple.

There's more: If you can love your business life, you'll be playing the game the way the guys do. They don't run out on the football field or stride into an important meeting wishing they were elsewhere. They are enthusiastic, eager to have an opportunity to satisfy their competitive urges.

Loving what you do is self-empowering. It makes you more brilliant, it gives you the ability to become a visionary, it helps you become the best businesswoman you can be. You improve your chances of rising to the top.

For some men, of course, loving the game is synonymous with material success. It's a basic cause-and-effect paradigm: If they get to the top and they get rich, they love it.

Women aren't as likely to love success as an isolated entity. We want to love our entire life. And that's fine. Unlike men, we don't tend to compartmentalize the various aspects of daily existence. So it's hard to feel upbeat when we take a job that isn't intrinsically interesting—even if we see the possibility of success somewhere down the road.

Why do women have such a hard time understanding the importance of loving our work? My sense is that in our society, women are raised to feel comfortable in the role of nurturer, the ones who make things better for everyone else. We don't get permission along the way to love ourselves, or to love what we do, outside of our caretaker's role. Only in the last few decades have we learned that we can be the center of our own lives. And that means we, too, can start loving our jobs with the same enthusiasm as those guys who rush out onto the sports field and into the boardroom.

When you have a new baby, changing her diapers isn't drudgery, because it's not the diaper you're changing, it's the baby. You want to do everything you can for her. But when she's three years old, the focus shifts to the diaper, not the baby; so you toilet train her.

Likewise, in an office, you can teach yourself to do any job you're given and be okay with it. But ultimately, if you don't feel good about your job, you'll just be going through the motions, which means that you're turning off that button that I call possibility.

You can't play any game well if you don't enjoy playing it.


═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

CHAPTER 2: FOUR GROUND RULES

"I feel there is something unexplored about woman that only a woman can explore."
— GEORGIA O'KEEFFE, ARTIST

A few years ago I asked the students in my business course at Emory to interview successful executives, both men and women. Their assignment was to uncover the qualities of good leaders and write up a report.

The assignment wasn't intended to be a gender discussion by any means, but it was hard not to notice that the words both the students and the executives used to describe men differed from the words they applied to the women.

Some of the most common terms describing male executives were: "quarterback," "absolute winner," "aggression," "boastfulness," "the desire to win," "holding power," "tough-skinned," "having fun," "part of a dog-eat-dog world."

These were the words and phrases used about women: "cooperation," "social involvement," "teamwork," "respect for others," "uncompetitive," "willing to share power," "concern for the harmony of the group," "feeling that everyone can be a winner," "wanting to be liked by all," "caretaker."

In the course of every discussion I've ever had about men and women, certain themes seem to appear; fair or unfair, professors, students, businessmen, and businesswomen all share the same vocabulary.

The same broad categories of women as "social" and "cooperative," men as "aggressive" and "tough" hold true in this book. Whereas not all men learned to play football or chess or poker, and not all women played with dolls or ignored competitive games, the majority of men and women were socially acculturated according to their sex.

Now, I know many men never played competitive sports or games while they were young. Certainly some women are stronger and more competitive than any number of men. And I'm not suggesting you should dismiss this book if you're a woman who is more comfortable with rugby than with dolls. I was a high school athlete, making all-Westchester County (New York) hockey goalie.

For the most part, however, the women's game was and is different from the men's. This is because men and women are wired differently, and we are brought up differently.

And when we are adults, we work differently. It is important for women to understand these differences, because the more aware we are of them, the more possible it is to gain access to power. Ignorance is never bliss. You cannot know too much.

Following are four fundamental ground rules underlying the strategies you need to understand if you are going to play.


RULE 1: You Are Who You Say You Are

Playing any game means being faced with a variety of choices, and the game of business is no exception. You will do well only if you make your decisions from a position of power rather than a position of weakness.

Whenever I sit on panels I am always amazed at the wide variety of backgrounds among the women—they have seldom traveled the same straight and narrow path the men do. A woman's way has many more obstacles, mostly because we face this huge issue called family. I've never met a woman so alone that she didn't have an important personal relationship somewhere in her life, whether it's parents, sisters, brothers, or children. That means that many of us have gone back and forth between family obligations and careers, sometimes having to leave work, or change our hours, or take jobs in other cities.

Men generally don't feel that pull between staying home and advancing within the organization. So your career will be colored by a greater number of factors than his—your game board is more complicated.

Don't make your life more difficult by seeing yourself as a victim of this system. For instance, one of my closest friends has been with the same Boston-based conglomerate for 25 years. She's very successful, but she has reached the point where she's not going any further. She takes care of outreach seminars, she writes proposals, she organizes meetings, but the guys have taken her off the core line businesses. She complains that they don't appreciate her, that her boss is horrible, that her work is boring.

"Your kids are grown, you have money, your husband is prospering," I tell her. "If you're that miserable, get out."

She looks at me as if I've suggested she vacation on the moon. She accepted the role of being a victim years ago, and she's comfortable with it. In fact, she took on this role before anyone else in her company ascribed it to her, but now it's impossible for them to imagine her in any other way.

Too many of us tolerate the role of the passive, put-upon person, probably because it's the one most often taken by our primary role model—our mother. Remember when you used to get up late on a Saturday morning? Dad was calmly reading the paper, while Mom was complaining, "I've got tons to do so I'll drop you off at your ballet class on my way to grocery shop because your father's parents are spending the weekend with us and I don't have anything for dinner."

How many of us ever heard her say: "If you need to get to your class, tell your father. Also tell him what you want for dinner, and remind him to pick up his parents so they can spend the weekend. I'm meeting a friend for lunch."

Women have tended to live in the complaint, to grumble to our friends and our daughters about it—but until relatively recently, we haven't taken action to fix it. Like women who remain in unhappy or abusive marriages, we are often more comfortable remaining with the devil we know, no matter how unpleasant or disagreeable, than making a proactive (and therefore potentially risky) change.

As I see it, women have two options: to structure our world around our own choices, or to let someone else make the choices for us.

In the 1980 Olympics, the U.S. hockey team was expected to lose to the Soviet team. But no one told this to the U.S. players, who were clear they were the best team in the world. Eventually they said this to themselves enough times that other people began believing it too. By the night of the finals their conviction had become truth, and they won the gold medal.

If you want to take charge of your own business life, begin by sending out the equivalent message about yourself. Pick your goal and say it aloud to yourself. "I could manage this department. I would do an excellent job."

Picture yourself actually doing the job. What would it feel like? What does it look like? Try to make your positive fantasies real. The first step to being successful is convincing yourself that you are successful.


RULE 2: One Prize Doesn't Fit All

Have you heard the story about the couple who was seeing a marriage counselor to help save their disintegrating relationship? The husband says, "I don't understand—we have a great house, we have great kids, we have a great car—what do you want?" And the wife responds, "I just don't feel fulfilled." The man looks exasperated; he has no idea what she means.

Women demand a greater sense of fulfillment from our jobs than men do. The standard male-oriented rewards—money, power, prestige—don't necessarily have the same sway with us.

Today women are learning to pay attention to our own needs, as well as everyone else's. This is helping us discover a new sense of freedom and independence in the workplace. Our jobs are not about our husbands or our children or our parents. Ideally, they are about us.

But can we handle this change? Many of us aren't always clear about what we want from this thing called a career. We anguish over whether it will be a career at all, or just a job to provide supplementary income. We obsess about whether it will have any real meaning to us, or whether we are doing it solely to please our family. We have incessant internal discussions over where we are going, and the route never seems to be as direct as we thought.

We live in what I call divine discontent. The work is never quite right, the company isn't either. Now, this feeling can keep smart women on their toes, because it can make them strive a little harder. But even so, such needless turmoil eventually wastes energy.

For most men, the actual job content isn't crucial. The trappings of success, such as title, prestige, and/or money can ameliorate the boring, unpleasant daily grind. Men reconcile doing work they don't like by getting high-profile rewards.

Consider the following: Over many years of public speaking I've often run into the CFO of a large manufacturing company who always tells the same story. Starting off in the accounting department, he slowly but surely worked his way up through one uninteresting position after another until finally, at the age of 60, he received his Glorious Reward and got the one job he'd always coveted. He is a smart and decent man. But every time I hear his speech, I shudder.

Unlike this male CFO, we women are much more likely to find an area in our company that we find fascinating and remain there for years. We tend to ignore the stars, bells, and brass rings that men consider necessary markers of success. For us, the ultimate reward can simply be the ability to say: "I feel great about what I'm doing."

Remember: Loving your job means you are the ultimate winner. But you must remain alert to all potential pitfalls along the way. No matter what the game, if two players are looking at a different goal, the manner in which they advance with the ball will differ.

Let's say you and John Doe start work the same day at the same level. John enters Sales, because he wants to be rich, and you enter Human Resources, because you're fascinated by interpersonal behavior. Fifteen years later, you look up to see that John is a vice president making $250,000 a year, and you're a vice president making $125,000. You think, "Did I do something wrong?"

No. And there's no reason to think you did—as long as you keep in mind that you and John Doe had different goals in mind. The rewards for being the vice president for human resources differ from those for being the vice president for strategic marketing. The title vice president doesn't have a salary attached to it. It depends on the perceived value of that job to the company.

When we choose to fulfill ourselves by what we do, rather than only what we make, we're not playing the game the way the guys are playing it. They are much more likely to be thinking about material success or power than fulfillment. Personally, I love the way women regard work, because our view is more holistic. But we must be aware that many times our decisions aren't going to be compatible with the male-dominated business culture, and if we go our own way, we may have consequences to pay.

If you opt not to play by men's rules, you have to be aware of the consequences. There are times when I've consciously decided to ignore the rules—but only when I was confident that I knew those rules inside and out, and understood that my male colleagues, finding my decision contrary, might lose faith in my ability to be a team player. You must be informed to take this path.


RULE 3: Work Isn't a Sorority

A new CD-ROM game, Starfire Soccer, calls itself the first sports game designed strictly "with girls in mind." What does the manufacturer mean by that? It's a game where relationships are as much a part of the action as kicking the ball into the net. To quote the packaging material: "Winning isn't just about the final score. It's about friendship and fun too."

The boys' games, however, are about winning. The friendship part doesn't come into play—at least, not while they're playing. Relationships take place when the game ends.

Simply put: Women enter the job arena with a stronger urge to form and maintain relationships than men do. Whether we are talking to the dry cleaner, the cashier, or the boss, we want to know a life story, we want to exchange feelings, we want to turn the other person into just that, a person, rather than the other party in a business transaction.

Study after study has shown that women are more likely than men to make, and keep, close friends. In this new age of business, where maintaining and servicing clients is so important, a woman's disposition to form strong relationships will work very much to her advantage. A talent for working with people means you can make them feel comfortable and earn their trust, and that you're probably a good listener. It's amazing how often people will tell us exactly what we need to know, if only we can hear it above our own internal dialogues.

Women's relationship skills may be our secret to greater success. I know one woman who has risen to the top of her male-dominated advertising company not only because of her professional talent, but because whenever a relationship problem arises between client and agency (or more often, between the major players at her firm), she's the one each person confides in. In essence she has become the great conciliator when the major players aren't talking to one another. Her unusual combination of skills makes her an invaluable part of the company's operation.

There are hazards, however, to having a relationship orientation. For instance, women often interpret basic information in personal terms. Say the boss is talking with you in the hall and seems taken by your ideas for restructuring your department. Suddenly he excuses himself. You suspect he's changed his mind and doesn't like your ideas after all. Actually, he had to go to the bathroom.

I've watched women personalize the office to the point where they won't hire people they don't like—even if they are exactly right for the job. I've also seen women inflict a mortal wound on their own careers by refusing to cooperate with someone they have an aversion to. Your co-workers are not your friends or your family. You don't pick them and it doesn't matter whom you like or dislike. You simply have to work with them. Some of the most successful people I've known have refused to have any social contact at all with their co-workers.

The people you meet in business can be nice acquaintances, individuals you can have a good working relationship with, but the key word is "working."

Personalizing causes trouble. A guy running down the field with a football knows he has to make it to the goal line, and he'll run over anyone to get there. Just because the fullback is his friend doesn't mean he won't stick his cleats in the guy's leg—if he has to.

As little girls, too many of us were taught that in order to get what we want, we had to charm the other person, whether this was a friend, a teacher, or a parent. If you made Daddy feel good, he'd acquiesce to your wishes. But in the office, you usually receive a "yes" because your proposal has merit, not because you do. The guy who gives you the green light may not even know you. We don't always understand how someone with whom we don't have a personal relationship can respect us. I know many men in positions of power who dislike each other intensely, but when they're sitting around the conference table, you'd think they were joined at the hip. Their personal feelings don't matter. They don't want to be liked. They want to win.

To change the way you do business, where and how do you start? Train—as in any other game. It may fly in the face of everything that seems natural, but the more you practice not taking it personally, the more natural it becomes. In other words, you get there by doing it.

Women must understand that we're playing in a world where our opponents have been taught to hide their emotions. Joe Friday from television's Dragnet never said, "Just the facts, sir." It was always, "Just the facts, ma'am." If all the Joe Fridays want only facts from you, you'll irritate them if you give them feelings.


RULE 4: You're Always a Mother, Daughter, Wife, or Mistress

I grew up with boys as friends, and so did my daughter. Society allows, and even smiles on, a young girl playing with a group of boys (if the boys will let her, that is).

For the most part, however, young males don't socialize enough with young females to accept them as close friends. And so it's rare, and seldom socially acceptable, to see a single boy playing with a group of girls.

When the time comes for that young boy who is now a man to mix with the opposite sex at the office, he is often at a loss. And when in doubt, he—like most people—stereotypes. Thus he tends to think of a woman co-worker as his mother, his daughter, his wife, or his mistress—even when she is very clearly none of the above.

Knowing this will help you understand male behavior patterns. If an older man has turned you into a Daughter, you can profit in innumerable ways—you'll be exposed to people and places that others won't see, and you'll be privy to conversations that will give you insight into how the business is run. Like any good father, Daddy will take care of you.

The downside? Men never think of their daughters as equals (much less their bosses). So after a few years of great opportunity, you become frustrated. And what do you do? You quit.

That's what I did when I was the Daughter, and it was one of the smartest moves of my career. I was sad to leave the job, but because it was clear I wasn't going to move up, I moved out—very, very carefully. Remember: It's important to maintain your father figure's support when leaving, because he can be a great help to you throughout your career, as mentor and counselor. Don't run away like a rebellious child. Convince him he made it possible for you to move on, and ask for his support.

The Wife is the hardest role. Here you can be accepted on the job as an equal (more or less). But you're also encumbered with all the baggage a guy brings to the office from his real-life marriage: If he's married to a nagging woman, and you inadvertently start using language that reminds him of her, he'll probably respond by shutting you down the same way he shuts her down at home.

For example, my friend Julie once saw a male colleague march into the boss's office twelve times in one day to ask questions about a new project, and the boss didn't bat an eye. But just the second time she requested some information, he yelled, "Leave me alone. You're relentless."

When Julie heard her boss say that word, one he normally used to describe his wife, she suddenly understood his mind-set and didn't personalize the confrontation. She knew that, despite its downside, being a Wife has decided advantages. For example, the boss often cuts her off at meetings because he assumes he can tell what she's going to say. While this can be frustrating and even embarrassing, Julie knows that she'll have the opportunity to pass along whatever information she needs to convey at other times and places. In other words, she has the office equivalent of pillow talk—the boss speaks to her on his personal time. Her co-workers only have the formal meetings to get their ideas across.

Basically, when you find yourself someone's Wife, you create ways to make it work to your advantage, unless it becomes thoroughly oppressive, and then you get a divorce.

Mother is a traditional role. She's the secretary who's been at the company 37 years, the woman who's been city editor for three decades, the executive who's had the same title since 1975. She's the one who welcomes the new people into the company, who makes sure the new vice president's kids have applied to the right school, who knows the office rules inside out. She probably invented half of them.

The bad part of being Mom is that mothers have covert power only. They get things done by innuendo and manipulation. The good part is: No boss can fire his mother. If you like the role, it's yours forever. Mothers languish safely until they retire.

As younger, more ambitious women have entered the workforce, the newer role for them is that of Mistress. Here you get to be a risk taker, you get to make decisions, you get to join the power structure. But you have to be very careful, because you're walking the tightrope of sexual tension. Very few of us know ourselves well enough not to get tripped up, and the consequences for your career may be especially severe if you're caught. You may lose your job as well as your reputation.

TIP: When you're with your husband, get used to the idea that as far as his colleagues are concerned, no matter who you are, you are Mrs. Husband. Many years ago I accompanied my then husband to a Fortune 500 company's annual meeting, where he was giving a keynote speech.

The company's CEO had invited us to sit at his table with the company's other officers and their wives. After introducing myself, I told him what I did for a living, and the CEO asked me how many children I had. I brought up an important issue concerning his business, and he answered by telling me that his wife and I were wearing the same color dress. From then on I played the retiring wife.

As the evening progressed, the men began discussing a case of insider trading. Because of its privileged content, this matter should not have been discussed in front of an outsider, let alone a journalist. I excused myself from the table.

As I left, I handed the CEO my business card. I told him that although this evening I was simply an executive's wife, he needed to be more careful, for women are in the marketplace, too. (The next morning he sent me two dozen roses, thanked me for my discretion, and vowed never to make the mistake again.)
═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

CHAPTER 3: PREPARING TO PLAY

"It had long since come to my attention that people of accomplishment rarely stay back and let things happen to them. They went out and happened to things."
— ELINOR SMITH, AVIATOR AND WRITER


Learn the Playing Field

Suppose you're playing a game of chess. Would you use a backgammon board? No. But metaphorically, that's what many women do.

All games are played out on a structured field of action. If it's football, you're talking about a 100-yard-long field. If it's Chinese checkers, it's a board with a star pattern. Monopoly follows a one-way path along the perimeter of a square; a roller derby rink is round. Name the game—hopscotch, rugby, Scrabble—and you know the terrain.

The game of work is also played on a board or field, one that is traditionally shaped like a triangle or pyramid. At the bottom are the largest number of people; the farther up you go, the thinner the ranks, until you reach the very top, where there's only one person.

The advantage to a pyramidal structure is its clear line of authority, from bottom to top. Everyone knows who's calling the shots, and who isn't.

The downside is that it doesn't allow for much open and honest feedback. Compliance is rewarded over constructive criticism. Risk taking tends to be avoided. Yes-people tend to thrive.

The problem for most women is that we enter business with a different sense of the game board. We're more comfortable with the concept of a circle—the shape that represents the circle of friends we made as children. When we were playing house, we had long discussions with our friends about where to put each piece of furniture, which room to fill up first. We were all equal—in other words, there was no captain of the dollhouse.

Because everyone was free to talk with everyone else, the circle generated open communication. No one felt that she couldn't contribute or that her ideas wouldn't reach a sympathetic ear.

In the business world, however, the circle can be problematic. Too often the women who replicate these power and information circles are swamped with input. And because all this information can't be put to good use, unhappiness ensues. "The boss always claims that she wants to hear what I have to say," the standard complaint goes, "yet she never acts on it. Why does she bother to ask?"

But the primary issue for women isn't the advantages of a circle over a triangle, or vice versa. Just as when you play backgammon, you play on a backgammon board, if your company has a standard pyramidal structure, you play on a pyramid too.

Yes, we don't like to think of ourselves as mere pegs on some lifeless board. But men don't mind as much, and they don't mind marking you as a peg, either. They'll expect you to act like a peg, too. Labels bring clarity. If you're a vice president, act like a vice president, talk like a vice president, do the work of a vice president. There are no relationship issues here. It's a game board issue. You're sitting at a certain level in the pyramid. Respond accordingly.

For instance, a woman I know at one of the large consumer goods companies had an excellent idea for a new product and spent a great deal of time developing it with her closest colleagues. But the concept never flew. The reason? My friend didn't stop to think that at the top of her company was a small cadre of men who made all the final decisions. Instead of seeking their support, she relied only on her relationship circle, not understanding that she had to enlist one of those men at the top of the pyramid to own her idea, so that when trouble happened, she was covered. Basically, her idea didn't reach fruition because she lost sight of the fact that a good idea isn't more powerful than the structure that must approve it.

I've always felt the best paradigm for the game of business would be a circle superimposed on a pyramid. This would allow interaction to take place among all levels of personnel, but would also provide a clear sense of hierarchy.

Finding a way to use our relationship orientation is one of the perspectives I hope women will bring to the game. In the meantime, if you're working in a standard hierarchical framework, you can only think circular if you've been given the freedom to do so from the people above you in the hierarchy.


Check Out the Team Culture

Up until a few months ago, Jane was a highly placed executive at a major media company. She had worked there for many years and was well regarded inside and outside the business. So when she quit to join the staff of a local not-for-profit organization, she surprised everyone—except those who knew her well, who were only surprised that it took her so long to leave.

Jane's issue: She held very strong political opinions, and her company's positions were generally antithetical to hers. Jane earned a good salary and wielded real power, but she always felt uncomfortable because she could never separate her inner beliefs from her company's outlook. Now she makes less money, but she's working for an organization she respects.

Many of us feel our company's values are as important as our jobs. Personally, I could not imagine working for a company I didn't believe in.

In the same way that men compartmentalize their work, they compartmentalize their lives: This is my salary, this is my job, this is my family, this is my belief system.

Women care about the totality of the package. We want everything in our lives to feel right—not just the salary, or the power, or the prestige. If you are going to be successful, you must feel comfortable with the place you work. As you walk in the front door for the interview, recognize that you could be on the brink of your next relationship. You've had them with girlfriends, boyfriends, relatives, and so on. This company may be next.

Ask yourself questions about your potential employer: Does the company do something I can feel a connection with? Do I like its public image? Does it stand for something I can stand for too?

Many years ago, when I was making $27,500 a year, I was offered a job as a producer on a Hollywood talk show. The salary: $125,000 a year—and this was just the first conversation. I could barely fathom what a grand sum that was. But the show was tacky, and the more I thought about it, the less the money impressed me.

I knew that if I didn't love my job, my performance would be second rate. So I turned the offer down. Not that I don't have plenty of bad moments at CNN, but at the end of the day, no matter what has happened, I'm genuinely proud of what I do and what my company stands for. I can say that to a large audience, or to myself, and know it's true.

The company's culture is more important than the position itself. You'll be happier with an average job at a place you love than with the ideal job at a place you loathe.

You'll also be happier in a place where you can feel comfortable. We tend to take on roles in our jobs just as we take on roles in relationships. Think about who you're going to be. The black sheep? The younger sister? The unattached aunt? The carefree daughter? The trustworthy confidante? Generally, your nonwork relationships dictate who you become at the office.

Unlike in your real family, however, here you have choices. Examine a new company carefully. Ask yourself if it offers a relationship you'd enjoy. Are these people you'd like seeing day after day? Personally, I know if I went for an interview at an office where every woman was wearing a dark suit with a frilly white blouse and stiletto heels, I'd walk out the front door. That's not a uniform I feel comfortable around. Whatever makes these folks tick is only going to make me unhappy.

Likewise, I believe in an open-door policy at work, and I become angry when my colleagues shut their doors. To me, that's a management style that says, "We don't share." So if I walked down the hall and saw that everyone had shut themselves off, I'd walk out the exit.

Do you like your potential employer's office environment? Is it attractive? Could you feel comfortable there? Do people have private offices, or do they work in one great room? Is the building itself so unsightly you couldn't imagine walking into it five or more days a week? I know one major executive who turned down an important job because she couldn't face driving into the world's ugliest industrial compound every morning.

Even in these days of huge conglomerates, companies still have distinct personalities. If you work for General Electric, CEO Jack Welch and his values determine the corporate culture. At AT&T, Michael Armstrong does the same, as does Lou Gerstner at IBM. Oprah Winfrey does the same at Harpo Inc.; even small companies have personalities shaped by their CEOs.

Uncover that culture. Use your relationship skills. The person who interviews you probably has an assistant. Form a relationship with her. Since you'll probably be kept waiting for your interview, find out how the other women feel about the company, the job, the boss. Before a job applicant enters my office, my assistants always walk in the door with their thumbs up or down to let me know what they think.

The receptionist has a name. Use it. Take advantage of her attention. She'll probably offer you a beverage. Accept it. Most women don't, because they think the other woman will feel demeaned; most men do, because they know it's part of her job description, just as the water boy's job was exactly that—to get the water.

The receptionist brings you coffee, you thank her, and the opportunity for a relationship arises. I admit that it took me years to ask for that cup of coffee. Now, since I prefer tea, I do something else. When I'm offered coffee, I ask for hot water and tell the woman not to bother about the tea bags, because I carry them in my purse. That always makes for a conversation—most often she's a tea drinker too, or her mother is. Instant relationship!

Walk through the corridors. Do people look happy? Are they friendly? Do they seem your type? Take a quick trip to the cafeteria or lounge, buy a cup of coffee, and listen. Are people complaining? Do they look miserable? Would you want to eat lunch with them?

Most of us put a great deal of time and attention into learning about the other important environments in our lives. If we're sending our child to school, we want to know everything about it—are the classrooms well-equipped, is there a good student-teacher ratio, does the school have a good reputation; we'll talk to a dozen other mothers. I know some women who'll spend months researching a possible vacation spot, and others who won't buy a house until they've practically camped out in it.

Your relationship with your workplace is one of the most important in your life. Make sure you do your homework.


Get Picked for the Team

A short time ago a friend was telling me a story about her son, who was trying out for his high school basketball team. Because he's considerably shorter than his classmates, he arranged a basket shooting display for his coach to show that his skill compensated for his size. He had practiced on the garage hoop several hours a day for the better part of two years. The strategy worked. He landed a spot as a guard.

When he announced the good news to his family at the dinner table that night, his father was delighted. But his sister, looking at him with the disdain that only a younger sister can muster, said, "I'd never want to join any team that didn't already want me."

Carry this kind of experience over to the job interview. The typical guy, who knows what it's like to sit on the bench waiting to play, arrives prepared to sell himself. His every movement says, "Come on, coach, let me in the game."

Most women, on the other hand, spend a lifetime hoping to get noticed. We're taught that it's more polite to wait to be asked—to go out on a date, to get called on in class. (Not surprisingly, studies show that girls are twice as likely to raise their hands in class if boys aren't around.) We don't grow up learning how to sell ourselves the way men do.

But on a job interview, you have to sell. And you have to sell with whatever you've got. Even if it's your first job and all you can say for yourself is that you're a well-organized, hardworking person, then do it. Let them see how accurate you are.

You're going to be bumping into male-female stereotypes all the way, so be alert. The first one to consider takes place before the interview starts: punctuality. Yes, men are as tardy as we are. But the cliché of the man who's late isn't so much a part of our culture as the constantly late woman, who's so overwhelmed with her life that she can't manage her time.

Don't expect to get away with a lie. I don't believe people who excuse their tardiness by saying they were in an accident. Why are they sitting in front of me without a smudge or a worry on their face? Shouldn't they be at the hospital or the police station?

The Problem: When women act in a manner that confirms stereotypes, we get slammed. It's even worse when those stereotypes hit a nerve. For example, if your interviewer has a perpetually tardy wife, and you show up ten minutes late, he will be angrier at you than at an equally late male applicant.

Good Strategy: Do some reconnaissance. Go to the interview site the day before so you don't get lost. Is the site near routine traffic jams? Is there a lengthy security check? What about parking—is it convenient and plentiful?

Other stereotypes walk right into the room with you. Boy's games teach them to develop their physical power; girls' games don't. Thus men are more apt to comfortably stride into the room, sit down, and look large.

I'm not saying you should strut into the interview like a football player, but you don't want to appear meek either. Find a way to exude self-assurance and physical presence. Every move you make matters. If your handshake is a wet dishrag, for example, you make a statement. I noticed the importance of this the other day when a newscaster came in for an interview as an anchor. When she put out her hand to say hello, her grip was solid. I was immediately more available to talk to her; I knew that a whole person was present. Too many women don't grip the other person's hand when they shake it—in part because we are not comfortable showing physical strength, but I'm also convinced that our experience taking a man's hand is colored by our dating years. Holding hands with our boyfriends was usually a passive, even a submissive, moment.

Do you make eye contact when you meet someone? Since women are taught to be modest, we seldom penetrate with our eyes. Furthermore, because we're trained in intuition and relationships, we often avoid looking directly into another person's face, because it may seem rude.

Or perhaps we're afraid of seeing truth. Look into a man's eyes and you'll know if he loves you, said our mothers. Many women have told me that they avoid eye contact with interviewers because they're afraid they'll see the job isn't theirs.

Bear in mind: Some interviews will be great and some will be terrible. That's a fact of business life, and there's no reason to believe you did something wrong. If the exchange was indeed that gruesome, the company may well be the wrong place for you.

That man eyeballing you is looking for someone who can make a difference to the team, someone who has the skills to compensate for the team's current weaknesses. When you exude comfort and confidence in the interview situation, you're letting him know you can do what needs to get done.

Basically, business is one long interview, so you might as well learn to do it well now.

GAME HINT: Women often think we must be smarter than men to land the job, but you can outwit yourself by being too smart. If you come to an interview armed with a dozen Serious Points you want to make, you may become so concerned with showing off your knowledge that you don't hear the actual conversation.


Wear the Right Uniform

Men have it easy when it comes to dressing for success. Basically, they have a uniform—the suit. This means that when they introduce themselves to a prospective boss, he's not paying attention to their outfit. He's focusing on their personality, their handshake, their resume. (We always joke with the male CNN anchors that the only item of clothing they can change is their tie.)

A woman's wardrobe, however, is a vital part of our presentation. It tells our colleagues what we're all about. Do you want others to think you're a plodder or an iconoclast? Are you creative, gregarious, secure? Are you conservative, timid, self-conscious? Your wardrobe has the power to convey all these messages, and as you move up the ladder into management it will prove either an asset or a detriment.

The primary message your clothes convey: I am suited up. I am ready to play. I am wearing the appropriate uniform to achieve my goal.

Once you're on the team, find your personal comfort level. I wore dresses for years, but now I prefer pants suits, which allow me to take off my jacket during the day. But even on casual days I keep a blazer handy so that I'll always look appropriate for an important impromptu meeting. I particularly like blazers with oversized pockets, where I can stuff my wallet and ID card if I don't want to carry my handbag. In the context of business, a purse can be a distraction.

The history of our wardrobe often reflects the history of our careers. One very smart woman I know can never really get ahead. Overweight, she dresses like a hippie in shapeless clothes designed to hide her body. Her company has carefully moved her out of positions of power and excluded her from meetings with outside executives. The more distance between her and the big bosses, the more she hides in her clothing. Her fears, first reflected in her dress, have become a self-fulfilling prophecy.

A sales executive I know at a California financial company earns a good deal of money, but she's not as high up in the company as she'd like. The reason: Her outfits are attractive but a little too tight. They show off her excellent figure, but they are inappropriate—so much so that her male associates feel uncomfortable around her. One colleague told me he was reluctant to have business dinners with her alone because he worried about what his wife would think.

A woman can also use her wardrobe as strategy. One high-priced lawyer tells me that the more difficult the negotiation, the more feminine she dresses, because she wants the opposition to forget how tough she is. On a normal day at the office, however, she wears a basic pants suit, to show her partners that she is as much of a power player as the rest of them.

The higher you progress up the ladder, the more apt you are to establish your own personal style. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright always wears a large pin on her lapel. It's the most noticeable aspect of her wardrobe, and its purpose is to suggest her individual style and her femininity without deviating too much from the appropriate uniform of the highest ranking member of the president's cabinet.

The bottom line: Dress for the team, but do it with confidence, creativity, and within the range of your own personal comfort. Clothing telegraphs to the world not just who you think you are, but who you want to be.

GAME HINT 1: Like it or not, our clothes frequently reflect our mood. Many of us have fat clothes, depressed clothes, angry clothes. When I'm at my heaviest, I wear unattractive outfits. It's a mistake. When a woman's outfit looks only half-pulled together, people tend to think her life is equally disorganized.

GAME HINT 2: One of the major rules in dressing for television is to avoid anything distracting—jangling bracelets, dangling earrings. This is true for business too. Such accessories are only appropriate when you want to distract—and in my entire career I don't recall ever wanting to do that. You could chair the most important meeting of your life, be at your most brilliant, look your very best, but if you're wearing elaborate jewelry, that will be the first thing people notice, and perhaps the last they remember.


Set the Right Goal

Not long ago, after giving a speech on the West Coast, a member of the audience approached me and told me about her seven-year plan. She was only a manager now, she explained, but in three years she was going to be a vice president, and four years after that, a senior vice president. She concluded by asking me about my own plans for the future.

I told her that to the best of my knowledge, I was going to be eating dinner shortly. I wasn't being flip. I've just never had three-, five-, ten-, or any other year plans. I've always felt that if I can tell what's going to happen to me in the next few days, life is good.

A plan can provide a sense of security. It gives you a tangible goal, something you can write down on a piece of paper and reassure yourself against. "Two years from now I will have a Big Title and make $75,000. Four years from now I want a Major Title and $150,000. In seven years, I want the Ultimate Title, I want my salary to double, and I want a big bonus too."

But rigid goals and five-year plans remind me of one of the most serious flaws in the old communist systems, one which helped assure their downfall: Inflexible goals impede new possibilities. No career is completely linear—it jigs and jags and crosses and turns. The mark of a good player is the ability to improvise; sticking to a specific plan leading to a specific goal limits your ability to do so. The woman who has that great new job you didn't even apply for probably never made a plan. While you were busy figuring out your own Step Seven, she was taking advantage of a challenging but unconventional spontaneous opportunity.

A great career is seldom reached by a ladder of small steps. If all you do is move up little by little, the ladder will go on forever. You don't get where you want to go incrementally. In most companies, the person recognized as a star is either the one who has made the great move or the one who has outfought the opposition. Stars don't wait for the future. They make the future happen.

Combine good strategic plays with vision. Goals stop possibility; vision creates them. Have a basic sense of what you want and where you want to go, and then try to visualize yourself there. Guys do that. From the moment they walk into the building, they see themselves in the CEO's suit. Every guy in my office feels he's a potential CNN president. Few of the women do—we rarely see ourselves higher than the highest-ranking woman we know, and she's seldom a CEO.

Having a vision also means taking advantage of any opportunity that can make it real—from moving into a fading department with turnaround potential to jumping on a promising new project that everyone else fears.

And be sure that your vision keeps pace with current reality. Jan Leschly, CEO of the drug conglomerate SmithKline Beecham, tells a story about his goal as a young tennis star to play center court at Wimbledon. He practiced and practiced to achieve this end, and one day he did indeed play Rod Laver at center court. As Leschly says, everyone has heard of Laver, but no one has heard of him—because he lost. His vision wasn't to win at center court. It was just to play there. Having vision isn't enough—you have to keep adjusting it to ensure you don't limit your options.

Personally, my professional goal was to feel good about my work, to grow, and to be appropriately compensated for my contribution. As for doing well, I just assumed I would succeed. I've never wanted to do nonsuccessful. I learned long ago that if the quarterback hands you the ball, you don't wonder if you're going to make the touchdown. You assume you will.

Instead of spending your day saying, "Why?," learn to spend it saying, "Why not?"
═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

CHAPTER 4: HOW TO KEEP SCORE

"There is no point at which you can say, 'Well, I'm successful now. I might as well take a nap.'"
— CARRIE FISHER, ACTRESS AND WRITER

Here's Janis, who's been a vice president at a large company for several years. She is a strong supporter of women in her industry, and her division has more women working in it than any other in her company.

It is also one of the most successful, but you wouldn't know this from walking around her department. The women who work for Janis don't have the same large offices and the same impressive secondary staffs as the men in similar positions elsewhere in the company.

Janis's bosses are not slighting her. She never asked for these things, because she didn't think they mattered. Janis didn't demand a huge office, because she was more comfortable with a smaller room, which fit her self-image. She didn't notice that outsiders who walked through her corridors thought the guy in the large space next door was more important than she was. He wasn't, but how would anyone know that?

To a guy, everything counts. The size of his office, the size of his staff, the size of his salary, the size of anything that can be measured. And they're always keeping score. Watch guys on the tennis court. Unlike women, who often suggest we "just volley for a while," the men want to start a game right away. After all, the object is to win. You can't win if you don't know who's ahead.

Perks are like your wardrobe; they introduce you to your business associates. And they either speak of power or they don't.

When we've done a good job, we can feel satisfied if the boss praises our work and gives us a dutiful raise. But if we don't have the sense to ask for staff, stock options, benefits, cars, club memberships, severance packages, guaranteed performance reviews, we probably won't get them.

Several years ago, following a promotion, a male colleague wondered if I'd been given the allowance for a big car or a small car. I didn't let him know that I wasn't aware of any car allowance. When I checked into the matter, I was horrified to learn that everyone else on my level had been offered car money long ago. Once I bothered to find out about it, I was smart enough to demand the large car allowance. The company agreed to my request without hesitation.

I've often noticed that there are some fairly young guys in the company whose jobs aren't clear to me, but when you walk into their well-appointed offices, you can't help but be impressed. Sometimes it's because the young man knows how to play the game and has asked for fancy surroundings. Other times it's because he has a mentor who wants him to look hot. A skillful mentor will make sure that the junior people on his team look powerful, because that's how he looks powerful too.

Recently a male executive was given a raise and promised a new office near mine. His boss decided the new room wasn't large enough, so he had the walls torn down between two smaller offices to create more space.

These tearers-down-of-walls are seldom women, because to many of us, such ostentatious land grabs feel greedy. Worse, we often receive validation from other women when we don't try to rack up the points. There you are, sitting around the coffee lounge with your friends, telling them how you and three guys were offered new offices, and one of them wasn't nearly as nice as the others. The guys were relentless in their pursuit of the three nice rooms, while you finally said, "This is ridiculous. I'll take the small office. I can put nice pictures in it and make it look fine." The other women agree with you.

I can't imagine a woman saying to her crowd, "I stood there and screamed and stood my ground until I wore them all down and got what should have been mine in the first place!" If she had, her friends would have thought, "She must be out of her mind."

There is a lot of support from our female business associates for doing the right thing, particularly when the men are doing something wrong. But is this support always helpful?

The guys are always figuring out who's ahead and who's behind, and we're not. That means, while they're racking up points, we can be perceived as losers. We're thinking, "I'm doing a good job so I don't need these symbols of success," while he's thinking, "Man, she sure doesn't know the score."

GAME HINT: Say you're sitting around in the lunchroom with a cup of coffee and you have a sudden inspiration about your new project. You mention it to a few people at the table. You take little heed, but the guy sitting across from you is taking notes.

Then, at the next concept meeting, you hear him presenting your material as his. A foul play? Not really. At work, you can't look at a referee and yell, "Time out!" There is no time out. Everything you say and everything you do is part of the game. It's only practice when you're not keeping score—and the guys always are.

KEEPING SCORE WITH DECOR: I know a woman whose brains and zeal have helped her achieve success in the corporate world, but you wouldn't know it by looking at her office. Because she knows her present furnishings are perfectly functional, when the bosses offer her a new chrome desk, a black leather chair, a fancy credenza, she declines. And since she dislikes working in a space that isn't familiar, when they suggest it's time to paint or re-carpet, she politely says no, even though the other executives on her level all have freshly painted corner offices with large windows.

This is how she manages her own home: She buys lovely furniture at the thrift shop and repaints or restains it herself. She also excels at keeping her household within her budget.

Not surprisingly, her climb to the top is faltering. Whenever she has meetings with other executives or outside vendors, she has to use someone else's office, because it's more comfortable, and that means she's never seen in the power position of sitting behind her own desk, running the meeting. People have begun to think of my friend as an oddity, a pack rat who toils away in a cramped space with dumpy furniture.

If pressed, she would probably tell you that her superiors must be grateful to her for saving the company so much money. (It is true her frugality has saved money, but only a negligible amount—a tenth of a percent of her department's total budget.)

As for myself, I have always made the mistake of using recycled furniture, because it seemed silly to buy anything new when the company storehouse is filled with excellent used chairs and desks. I think of myself as a good girl who doesn't waste money, but I doubt anyone else in the company knows—or cares—about my thriftiness. It took writing this book to make me realize I need to upgrade my office.


═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

CHAPTER 5: PLAYING THE GAME
Fourteen Basic Rules for Success

"A woman is like a tea bag. You never know how strong she is until she gets into hot water."
— ELEANOR ROOSEVELT, FORMER FIRST LADY AND SOCIAL REFORMER

Many years ago, as my birthday was approaching, I began fantasizing about the wonderful presents my husband might give me. Feeling particularly romantic that cold winter, I remember dreaming about bouquets of fresh-cut flowers, particularly my favorite—roses.

When the day arrived, my present turned out to be a television set with a pair of headphones, which meant that I could tune in my favorite programs while my husband watched his sports events.

In all fairness, he had spent time and money on his gift, and he genuinely expected me to like it. Anyway, I had never actually told him I wanted something romantic, like flowers.

That's the key fact. I never told him. My thought was, "If he really cares about me, he'll know what I want. If I have to tell him what I want, I don't want it."

Every time, at every seminar and speech I give, when women hear that story, they nod. We all seem to recognize that sentiment.

Now translate that sentiment into business.

Say your immediate goal is the Paris assignment. Your boss has been talking about opening up an office in France for a year now. It's your dream. If you're not paying attention to strategy, you'll strategize like this: You'll obliquely mention how much you enjoy European travel. You'll say how you've signed up for French lessons. You'll talk about your growing interest in French cuisine.

But as you do all this—and as you continue to perform better than anyone else in your department—some guy down the hall will march into your boss's office and convince him he's the best guy for Paris. And your boss will give him the assignment.

When you protest, the boss can honestly answer, "I didn't know you wanted it."

"Didn't you get my hints?" is a poor response.

Games teach guys to go after what they want. No matter what they're playing, they learn that you don't win if you don't identity your goal and strive to achieve it.

So what should you do to get the Paris job?

You don't have to do it a man's way. But you do have to:

1. Understand the difference between how he plays the game and how you play it.
2. Recognize that for the time being, his way of playing is the accepted way.
3. Decide if you want to change the way you play.

Following are 14 rules that will instruct you to play the game a man's way—and win. Each direction includes a scenario, the typical moves men and women make in it, and some thoughts to consider.


RULE 1: Make a Request

SITUATION: The Paris post is available (see above).
HIS MOVE: He asks.
HER MOVE: She hints.

To put it bluntly, asking is the only way to get what you want. Obvious? Yet I can't tell you how often I've heard stories of women who have entered contract negotiations hoping for a large raise and were offered a small one. They felt disappointed, they felt cheated, they wondered if they had done something wrong. But did they object? They did not. Instead, they told the boss, "Thank you." But they certainly complained in private.

It's not an accident that the infamous line from the movie Jerry Maguire, "Show me the money," was spoken by a man.

Afterwards, the boss may appreciate how courteous the woman was, how easy it was to do business with her, what a pleasant time they both had. But the boss gave the big raise to the guy who came in and demanded it.

Over the years I have seen many women succeed and many women fail. The reasons they succeed are numerous, but the reasons they fail fall into a few identifiable categories, and near the top of that list is the inability to understand the meaning of the word no.

Women have been acculturated to believe that no means NO!, and so we often won't make a request if we think we're going to get a negative answer. To a man, however, no suggests a range of possibilities: No, maybe, or later.

Men learn at a young age that no is a relative rather than an absolute term—a temporary rebuff rather than an outright rejection. The boy knows the original no wasn't necessarily an outright rejection. It doesn't mean you can't go out and play some other time. It just means that right now, at this moment, you can't play.

Likewise, if he's made the team, but the coach won't let him in the game, he'll approach him again later, when someone gets injured or fouls up. "Hey coach," he says, over and over. "I can do it! Give me a chance!"

Even when men suspect that they're going to get an unfavorable answer, they still charge ahead and ask the question. So they get a no. They shrug it off, take it back to their office, struggle with it, then they come up with a plan to change the negative into a positive. They think, "It wasn't the right moment to ask, I didn't ask the right way, or use the right words."

A person's reaction to the word stems from the power of the word itself. Do you take no as a personal rejection, or do you take it as a piece of new information that you must work with?

Because we personalize situations, we hear no as a comment on our abilities, a sign the relationship between us and our superiors has failed. The result? We stop trying. The female definition of the word no: Absolutely not, how could you even ask?

THE PROBLEM: Because you're afraid of being rejected, you never ask for what you want.

WHAT TO DO: Imagine the worst that can happen if someone tells you, "No." It's not a tragedy. It's not a fatal injury, only a setback.

So I say, speak. Say it aloud in your office. Nothing becomes real until you say it aloud. Women lean toward internalizing and anguishing. Yes, if you don't ask for what you want, you won't end up being embarrassed. Yes, if you keep your desires hidden, you'll feel safe. Yes, you can't fail if you never tell anyone what you want. But at the same time, you can't succeed.

So look at the wall and announce, "I want to be vice president for strategic marketing." Say it to the window, the ceiling, the desk.

Now sit back and decide whether this is really what you want. Either you'll think, "Yes, I'll make a great vice president." Or, "No way. That's a job I would hate."

I firmly believe that we live into who we say we are. The first step to becoming a general manager is to begin thinking of yourself as a general manager, and to begin saying it aloud, over and over. Keep repeating it until you're so comfortable with the idea that eventually, it becomes who you are.


RULE 2: Speak Out

SITUATION: A meeting with the boss and a dozen staff members.
HIS MOVE: He's not completely up to date on all the information, but he talks knowledgeably at the table whenever he has a point.
HER MOVE: Only 95 percent confident of her stuff, but better prepared than anyone else in the room, she has a nagging doubt that keeps her from speaking up.

As I said earlier, men are comfortable holding forth. From the time they are young their opinions are solicited, they're pressed to speak up. They are rewarded for the right answer, and a wrong answer bags them a hearty congratulations for trying.

Take this model to the office: We've all noticed that men can feel confident expressing some of the most ridiculous ideas imaginable, spouting notions and hatching plans that make us cringe. They know that the only ideas they'll be remembered for are the good ones. The other 95 percent may amount to a hill of beans, but those few good ones make them king of the hill.

Men talk a lot. Women don't talk enough—even seasoned executives. Consider this: Because I run the CNN editorial board meetings, I determine which two dozen of my associates to invite to the informal lunch with our guest speakers, who range from world figures such as Mikhail Gorbachev to writers like Maya Angelou. Over the years, the women seldom spoke up in the question-and-answer sessions. And if one did, and a man started talking at the same time, she would instantaneously shut down. Eventually I established private ground rules for the women: If you don't ask a question, you don't get invited back to the next meeting.

Now they talk, because they have to. And they ask superb questions.

Related to the issue: Boys grow up playing so many games and sports that they learn how to lose. They grasp that setbacks are temporary, that anyone can make a comeback, that saying the wrong thing in a meeting is not the end of the world.

Women feel like failures when we make a mistake or lose face. Because achievement is our trump card, we think we shouldn't say a word unless we're 100 percent certain of what we're talking about.

THE PROBLEM: If you don't talk, no one will know you're there.

WHAT TO DO: Study your surroundings and act accordingly. For example, if you're in a meeting, observe how the others act and interact. Do they laugh, tell jokes, and eat? Are they serious or relaxed? Do others defer to the big cheese, or does each of them act like big cheeses? Do they speak up, or does the boss do all the talking? Every meeting has a different culture. It's your responsibility to figure it out.


RULE 3: Speak Up

SITUATION: The boss has ten minutes in which to hear two short presentations.
HIS MOVE: He gives his report loudly and clearly in less than five minutes.
HER MOVE: In a barely audible voice, she talks for almost a quarter of an hour.

When a guy is playing a competitive game, there's little time for chatter. Say he's on the basketball court with five seconds left to play and his team, behind by one point, has the ball. When the coach calls him over, he doesn't ask questions about the history of the game or his feelings about last year's coach. He says what he must as forcefully as the situation warrants, and only that.

Men will tell you that women are too timid when they talk at the office, or too evasive, or too circuitous, or too unsure of themselves. There's a female executive at a Fortune 500 company whose male peers have nicknamed the Let-Me-Ask-You-a-Question Lady. She has plenty of smart questions to ask, but she doesn't seem able to get them out without first asking, "Let me ask you a question …"

It's the worst strategy in the playbook. You never ask if you can ask. You just ask.

Because we were taught to speak our mind only reluctantly, our vocabularies are saturated with such phrases as "I don't mean to interrupt you, but …" Or "I know that you're very busy, but …" Or "Everyone may have thought of this idea before, but …" Or all those other phrases that end with a but. Why do we need to apologize for what we're about to say? Why can't we just say what we need to say, and say it quickly? When you ask for permission to speak, you're putting conditionality instead of strength around a statement. Conditional talk doesn't have much power.

Even if you can get past the apologies and the circumlocutions, there's still the issue of volume. Women often talk so softly in business meetings that few people in the room can hear us well.

To some degree this can be seen as another form of learned behavior—a result of not having been encouraged to speak as forcefully as men. When we have to quiet down our kids, however, we never seem to lack the ability to turn up the volume.

But speaking forcefully isn't really about speaking loudly or softly. It's about learning how to use your voice effectively. Even if you have a small voice you can sound powerful—as long as you believe you have a right to speak.

Careers don't progress if no one can hear the point you are making, or if half an hour after you whisper your brilliant idea, someone else restates it more powerfully and gets the credit. It's not really your idea unless you're willing to stand up for it and give it power. You don't score a goal if nobody knows you did.

THE PROBLEM: Your speaking manner is weak.

WHAT TO DO: You must speak in a convincing and unconditional manner. That doesn't mean you have to talk like a man. It doesn't have to be, "I'm going to kick your butt if you don't do what I ask." But you need to practice how to talk in a way that gives you power.

If you have to, go home and talk to a blank wall. Say, "I've had enough." "I don't want to do this today." "I won't be cut off in the meetings anymore." Speak loudly enough so that if there were someone in the room, no matter where he or she was, you could be heard.

Throughout corporate America, women speak from the place called no-permission. We speak softly, we speak timidly, without authority or power. Not long ago I was on a panel with two knowledgeable women who lost their chances to shine because their voices were too tentative. Everyone else in the room stopped listening to them, while the one man who talked gave a forceful presentation. And in the end, he was the person who was asked all the follow-up questions, even though the women were really the experts. Later the women complained to me that it was just another meeting dominated by men. But I told them they were as much to blame.

All women should take at least one course in presentation skills. We have no hesitation about signing up for a tennis lesson to learn how to perfect our backhand, yet we seem unwilling to do the work to speak authoritatively. Learn to project your voice. Do you honestly think that Peter Jennings and Tom Brokaw were born speaking like anchormen?

Have someone videotape you as you speak, and then watch the replay. This is tough, I know. There's a reason I stay on this side of the camera. But I have forced myself to do this dozens of times because I always learn something.

Obviously, you can't change your voice completely, but with training, most voices can become more powerful, more effective in business situations. Your voice is an instrument, like a piano or a violin. To succeed, you must play it like a master.


RULE 4: Toot Your Own Horn

SITUATION: The big boss is making his monthly tour through the corridors.
HIS MOVE: He walks out of his office, introduces himself, and mentions his newest project.
HER MOVE: Confident that the boss knows who she is because her work has been excellent, she stays inside her office, assuming that performance is all that matters.

When I was growing up, most of my friends lived in nice houses and had affluent parents with nice cars. We knew few people outside our close circle, but every now and then we'd play with another girl who lived in the next town over. She seemed just like us, but one day, when we finally visited her, we discovered that her house was bigger than all of ours, her yard was twice as large, her parents had three cars. Slowly it dawned on us that her family was very, very rich.

She clearly had taken pains to hide it, because she didn't want to show off. After all, we were being raised to believe in equality, and that meant that we didn't bring attention to ourselves. If one of us distinguished herself in some way—if we won a prize at school or got a new dress—our friends were supposed to say how wonderful we were, how pretty we looked. We were allowed to fish for these compliments, but we couldn't solicit them directly.

Boys' games teach them to stand out any way they can, to step boldly out of the box. How else will the coach notice them? You don't get into the game by mumbling to the coach that the guys already on the field are a lot more capable than you are. Boys exaggerate, they boast, they brag.

It's the same with business. Part of getting ahead is getting noticed. And the woman who gets noticed is the one who makes sure that her bosses know how good her work is.

Taking credit for your accomplishments is part and parcel of your job performance. Yes, the company hired you to keep the accounts in order. But they also hired you to join the ongoing conversation, which means that whenever they discuss new projects or look for solutions to old problems, they want your input. And how will your bosses know you have good ideas if no one has told them how talented you are?

THE PROBLEM: You're uncomfortable in the spotlight. You feel your work should stand for itself.

WHAT TO DO: Make sure everyone notices what you do. Stick out your hand and introduce yourself. Let people know that you're smart, that you've met your numbers, that you're on top of your operations.

But you can't do this the way a man does. He can get away with boasting. You can't. When guys brag, it reminds them of being on a team. When women brag, men and women hear rudeness and pushiness.

You must learn to be your own public relations person in a way that's comfortable for you and works within the culture of your office. So we have to find ways to toot our own horns without making ourselves or our associates uncomfortable. For most of us, the best personal public relations is accomplished in a relationship context. Rather than stand up at a meeting and talk about yourself, find a more personal way to get the word out.

TIP 1: Update your boss on your progress; write him a memo every couple of weeks to remind him subtly that you're an important member of the project. Don't be grandiose. Be clever—hide your self-promotion in your description of what your team is doing. Let everyone's good work reflect on you. And when there's a victory to report, make sure you're the first one to announce the good news. If he's astute, he'll realize that you were a key player but he'll appreciate your team move.

TIP 2: When a new boss walks the corridor, introduce yourself. But don't stop there. Introduce yourself to everyone: people in the elevator, people walking down the hall, people in the parking lot. And don't worry if that stranger turns out to be a junior employee, because you never can tell whom she knows, or who she will be in the future, or when she might give you that little leg up.

TIP 3: When you attend an office party, don't socialize only with your friends. A casual introduction can lead to something big. Say a manager has been assigned to a new project and has been told to hire one of three people. He doesn't know any of you, but his assistant says, "I met Jackie at the Christmas party, she's really smart." Or he thinks to himself, "Didn't I talk to a Jackie at the company picnic? She sounded very capable."

Women are champions of small talk. So talk small. When you meet someone at the company picnic, if you don't know the right opening line, tell him his daughter ran a great race, or that his son plays baseball like a pro. If you're thinking, "That's not how I want to be known," I say, "Why not be known that way—at first?" Men love to hear nice things about their families. You're not lying. You're starting a relationship.

Use your intuition. Size up what works with the person you are talking to. If you don't think he wants to talk about his kids, try something else: his summer vacation plans, his professional training, or his new car.

TIP 4: Most large companies have newsletters. If yours does, volunteer to write for it. And don't be coy if someone wants to cover your department. Give the reporter leads. Introduce her to your staff. Everyone in the company reads the newsletter, and everyone will learn more about what you do.

GAME HINT: Closely related to boasting is bluffing, a concept that has loaded connotations for women. Aren't we raised to be virtuous, truthful, full of integrity? I can barely think of any woman who pretends to know more than she does. If anything, we veer in the other direction. Because we want to be absolutely sure we know what we're doing, we prefer overpreparation to bluff.

Males learn to bluff in every childhood game they play. But there is no bluffing in dolls or playing house, because these games aren't about winning and losing. You only need to bluff when you want to win.

Like it or not, part of being good at a job is making it up as you go along. There will always be times when you won't know it all. And you're not going to convince anyone that you're confident if you look terrified—which is why a poker face is one of an executive's best friends.
RULE 5: Don't Expect to Make Friends

SITUATION: A new colleague moves into the next office. Although pleasant and cooperative, she makes it clear she's not interested in making friends.
HIS MOVE: He doesn't care.
HER MOVE: She feels hurt. She feels guilty. Did she do something to offend her?

Aware that schools all over the country are now encouraging women to play sports, I was curious to talk to a young friend who plays varsity soccer at a small East Coast college. She's a good athlete and her team does well. But last week, after watching her first soccer match between two top NCAA female teams, she was in shock. "They were so mean," she said. "They play for keeps. We like to win, too. But mostly we want to have a great time with each other."

Things are changing—very slowly. While at some colleges, in some athletic programs, some women are learning to play to win, that is not the prevailing attitude. The emphasis on victory is still a male concept. Playing to make friends is not. When was the last time you heard a bunch of guys, back from a serious football game, whooping it up and saying, "What a wonderful weekend, we met some really nice guys on the other team. Too bad we lost"?

Work is no more about friendship than a tough competitive sport is. Men are clear that business is business, and personal is personal. When they disagree over job-related matters, they don't see each other as being unsupportive or uncaring or disloyal. They know that they can have a tough fight on Friday, and still drink a few friendly beers together on Saturday.

For many women, our relationship with a co-worker is so significant that we forget the importance of appropriate distance.

For instance, the bookers at CNN are responsible for finding the right expert to feature on air. The job of the researchers is to do the prescreening, which involves talking to the chosen guest and going over his or her material. Sometimes, after that preinterview, a researcher decides a booker has selected the wrong person, and she says so. I can't tell you the number of times that tempers have flared and friendships have ended over these disagreements. The booker takes it personally that her close friend the researcher has undercut her.

I tell the booker and the researcher (when they're ready to listen) that our work is not about friendship. It's about getting the job done in a professional way.

The ideal work situation for most of us is to run the ball toward the goal line, then pass it to our best friend who lobs it to our sister who throws it over to our cousin and then back to us to score. But what happens if your best friend or sister or cousin doesn't like the play? Are you going to stop the game while you're in danger of being tackled by your opponents and accuse her of disloyalty?

THE PROBLEM: If you insist on being close friends with co-workers, you may soon have a lot of ex-friends—and an ex-job.

WHAT TO DO: Keep in mind that your job is only a part of who you are. Your work is your work, and your life is your life. Decisions and comments that make sense for work may not make sense in any other context. Always remember that making friends is not an objective of a business situation. It's a by-product.

GAME HINT: One of the major myths in the business world, and one primarily perpetuated by men, is that women don't support each other. Not so. Women do a great deal to help each other. And don't forget it.

If there is any truth to the myth at all, it may reflect the way the male hierarchy often pits one woman against another as the designated female for the job, creating an unpleasant competition.

But more often this myth stems from overpersonalization of work-related issues. And when the resulting disputes become public, it's usually the men who disseminate the story to all.

Years ago, one of my peers, Joanna, confided to a male co-worker, Jordan, that the only other woman at her level had promised to support her at a meeting, but had backed down when confronted by the chairman. Joanna expressed her surprise and anger that her friend hadn't stood by her, but her friend later explained her reasons, and Joanna accepted her apology—and that was the end of it, she thought.

But Jordan never let the matter drop. To this day, whenever the two of them are in a meeting and the conversation turns to an issue concerning women, Jordan will look at Joanna, wink, and say, "You, of all people, know exactly what I'm talking about. Don't you?"

No matter that Joanna has told him repeatedly that her friend had explained her silence. Jordan refuses to drop the subject because he wants to believe their enmity persists. He also enjoys sharing it with other men—which he does, inside and outside the office.

So even if you can't help but become angry with a female co-worker, for the sake of the rest of us, keep it to yourself.

GAME HINT: You can't expect to make friends of everyone. And you can't make everyone happy.

Another friend recently approached me about her husband, who was having trouble with his boss, a man I've known for years. "My husband is so smart," she said. "You know that. Maybe you can help."

I told her firmly that it would be a grave mistake for me to get involved (and that what she was proposing was a possible first step to divorce court). The instinct to help out any way you can is the sign of a good heart, but it doesn't make for good game strategy—and it's certainly not the way guys play the game. Can you imagine a man making an appointment to see his wife's boss to help her advance up the corporate ladder?

I don't care who you are. You can't please everyone. If you try, you'll end up taking care of not only your kids, your spouse, and your parents, but also your assistant, your boss, your vendors, your accountants, and God knows how many others. First and foremost, your job is to do your own job.


RULE 6: Accept Uncertainty

SITUATION: The boss gives everyone at a certain level new areas of responsibility.
HIS MOVE: He doesn't tell anyone he's uncertain how to proceed, and he forges ahead.
HER MOVE: She is so worried about her new responsibilities that she finds it almost impossible to get any work done at all.

Fact: Unlike men, who owe their success to a variety of factors, women assume we get ahead because we're better at our job than anyone else. I don't think any woman ever believes she was promoted for any other reason than her excellent performance.

As a result, over the years we've adopted a perfectionist model. We don't say we know something unless we're completely confident we do.

Men are brought up to feel comfortable with a generalized sense of the right answer. If they're familiar with the game board, they believe they can smell out the correct way to proceed.

If I wasn't aware of this fact already, teaching at business school gave me proof positive. Whenever I asked a broad question about a subject, the guys nodded their heads knowingly. They guessed I wasn't going to quiz them. Who knows, maybe if they racked their brains, they really could come up with an appropriate response if called on.

The women, on the other hand, always waited until they fully grasped the particular point I was making. They weren't about to nod their heads unless they felt they could make a solid contribution to the subject.

Think of the way men play games. They don't run out on the field, saying, "Who the hell knows if we can beat these guys!" They're filled with bravado, bluff, swagger. They psych themselves up. They say, "We can do anything!"

Whether they can or not, they know that if they start the game feeling confident, they have a much better chance of triumphing.

THE PROBLEM: If you have to feel completely safe before you move on or up, you'll never move at all.

WHAT TO DO: Have faith in your general ability to perform, and stop worrying about whether or not you have the specific competence to do a new job. You'll figure it out soon enough. There's no such thing as Completely Certain—not in business, not in life. Part of being good at a job is learning how to make it up as you go.

That's not being a liar. That's being able to improvise. Most difficult situations that arise at work have no precedent. A great executive can always figure out how to do that which hasn't been done before.


RULE 7: Take a Risk

SITUATION: You feel stalled at work, and the boss tells you that the only way to get ahead is to break out of the box and take the occasional risk.
HIS MOVE: He takes the risk.
HER MOVE: She becomes so preoccupied with weighing the pros and cons that she never takes any action at all.

How do you break the training of a lifetime? From the get go, men are encouraged to take chances. We are told not to. Little boys are told to get out there and fight. We are told not to. He's 4′2″, and he's happy to be guarding a boy who's 5′8″. He learns what risk is.

Women are brought up to be physically careful, to avoid situations that are potentially dangerous. Don't jump off that wall. Don't touch that dog. Don't play near the water. The last thing our parents want is for us to hurt ourselves. What if we scarred ourselves for life? What man would want to marry us then?

But you can't get ahead without making risky moves. No one who is content to play safe ever sees her career skyrocket. No one who's afraid to stretch the boundaries ever becomes CEO. Being passive gets you nowhere.

Risk seems frightening, because it involves being active. What if I make that move and get fired? What if I accept that new project and make a mess? Why take a chance at all? Why rock the boat?

Fact: All boats rock. If you're going to be successful, you're going to make mistakes, and at some point you're probably going to get fired. But not to worry: Mistakes and firings can mean that you've done something out of the ordinary or that someone has noticed you. In fact, as long as mistakes represent the exception and not the rule, they are often signs of success. A career made up of many pluses and a few minuses is the career of a winner. "I don't care if a manager makes five serious mistakes. At least that person is making decisions and learning from them," says Microsoft CEO Bill Gates.

Even more difficult for many women to accept: The things we think of as risks are often not risks at all. Let's say you've been working at the same job for seven years. You're bored and you can't figure out exactly where you're going next. The guy sitting across from you is in the same position, but he's thinking that it's time to move on. One day he walks into the boss's office, announces he has a new job, and quits.

You may think he's making a mistake by leaving his secure, if unexciting, sinecure. Actually, while you've been obsessing about how bored you are, he was doing his job, plus all the work that goes with finding a new position—putting out feelers, sending out resumes, talking to headhunters, and so on. He's not randomly rolling the dice, he's got them all loaded. And while you're still trying to justify staying put, he's in a new world, with more money, better contacts, and new status.

THE PROBLEM: You can't get ahead because you're terrified to take a risk.

WHAT TO DO: People who take risks are people who have their fear under control. Without fear, it's not a risk.

Take small risks to prove to yourself that you can manage your fear. Set up minor tasks that you can afford to fumble. For example: Say a competent woman arrives at her office an hour before—and leaves an hour later—than everyone else. She doesn't get much done in those hours; she's just proving how hardworking and dedicated she is. She's confusing busy with productive.

For this woman, real risk would be to come in at nine and leave at six. I've recommended this schedule change to several women, and all of them were able to face their fear that they owed their success to their long working hours. After shortening their day, they discovered no one else thought less of them for spending fewer hours in the office—and they still got all their work done.

Start a conversation with someone you're afraid of, or someone you suspect is twice as smart as you are, or someone who's obnoxious. Or, walk into the office of someone you think is mad at you. It helps you define your own boundaries when you can sense that another person's bad mood has nothing to do with you. Try thinking, "He must have had a fight with his wife last night." Very often, when someone's yelling at you, he's probably just angry. The "at you" part only means that physically you're in close proximity.

If risk continues to scare you, consider that you're taking risks every day. Driving to work is a risk. Eating raw fish is a risk. Life is filled with risks, but you've become so inured to most of them you don't notice.

There really isn't a fundamental difference in how men and women approach their personal fears. It's just that men are more used to confronting them than you are. He's taking his 236th risk, you're taking your fifth. Of course you're more scared.

In the modern business world there is no such thing as safety, which means that risk is a relative term. Something is risky only if you don't know what you are doing. Otherwise, you're simply calculating the chances that a potential move will be good or bad, and then taking action. Fear is part of the braid of success—don't let it paralyze you. Yes, you can fail, but if you're ready for the possibility, you have a backup plan. Today's failures can pave the way for tomorrow's successes.


RULE 8: Be an Imposter

SITUATION: A man and a woman have been promoted to positions of power.
HIS MOVE: He arrives at his office, admires his fancy desk and furniture, and contemplates his new responsibilities. He realizes that there's much he doesn't know about his new job, but he tells himself that if he's gotten this far, he'll probably go further.
HER MOVE: She arrives in her office, sees the fancy furniture and the corner view, and feels uncomfortable. She knows she worked hard to get here and that no one deserves a promotion more. "But now I'm in over my head," she thinks. "It's only a matter of time before they figure out I'm an imposter."

The one game that most girls learned to play well was The Game of Knowledge. This is the one we learned in school, the one where we were rewarded (with good grades, parental approval, teacher attention) for being a good student, for doing our homework, for being prepared when called upon.

Since we're only now learning about the game of business, we still rely on the Game of Knowledge. As a result, we usually enter the workplace convinced that the only way to advance is to master our subject backwards and forwards. We collect information, we accumulate anecdotes, we do whatever it takes to get the job done. When we're ready to make a presentation, we make sure we haven't missed a single fact, and we enter the conference room trailing highlighters, annual reports, and computer printouts, thoroughly overprepared and overeducated.

Feeling that you know everything about your subject means you don't have to worry about being caught off guard. But it has a downside: No one knows everything. Eventually a colleague will ask you a question that you can't answer. And when that time comes, you suspect that you're an imposter.

This is the horrible, sinking feeling, experienced by the intelligent and the hardworking, that success is accidental. This imposter syndrome causes us to live in constant fear that we will be discovered, that our inadequacies will be exposed, and that we will be humiliated, demoted, dismissed.

Women who suffer from the imposter syndrome frequently expend as much energy trying to figure out how to survive their presumed unmasking as they expend doing the actual job.

They also become very good at convincing themselves not to take risks, because moving into any new territory makes them even more vulnerable to exposure.

The real truth is, we are imposters. Each and every one of us, men and women alike. None of us has a grasp on all the facts. Think about it. Does any one of us truly know everything there is to know about raising kids? No. But that doesn't stop us from doing it, or from doing it very well.

Business is no different from life. Men know that. They fake it whenever and wherever they have to. They go from one place to the next, gathering as much information as they can, and the closer they move to the top, the more they rely on improvisation, self-confidence, and the generalized ability to draw on past experience rather than book knowledge.

In business, when you're doing something new, there is no safety net. That is nerve-racking. That is also how creative business ideas are advanced.

THE PROBLEM: With every new promotion and every new step comes the feeling that you're an imposter waiting to be exposed.

WHAT TO DO: Accept the fact that there isn't one of us who can honestly say that he or she knows everything there is to know about the job, or who can't be caught off guard, or who couldn't be replaced one day by someone more talented. And believe me, the same is true of all of your bosses.

More important is how you talk to yourself. Do you tell yourself you are an overachiever who has no idea what she is talking about? Or can you admit, "I'm in new territory, but I wouldn't be here if I weren't competent and knowledgeable. So instead of focusing on what I don't know, I'll focus on my store of information and learn the rest as I go along."

Ask yourself reasonable questions. What are the things that someone in this job should know? Do you know them? If not, how long would it take you to learn them? Did your predecessor know more at this stage than you do?

When I was first asked to start a central booking department for CNN 17 years ago, I had no idea what form it should take or what help I needed to set it up. But I did understand that the company's president had selected me for two reasons. First: He had confidence in me. So instead of worrying that he'd chosen the wrong person, I looked on my job as an adventure and decided that the worst outcome would be to return to my old job—which I'd always liked anyway. Second: The president knew I wouldn't besiege him with questions. I'd just do the job.

Bosses delegate work to you because they want you to figure it out. If they'd wanted to figure it out themselves, you'd be superfluous.

Replace your imposter scenario with a self-confident one. Confidence is half of the game. Whenever you can convince yourself you'll score, your chances improve. When you convince yourself you'll fail, your chances diminish. I know that whenever I think I'm going to drop the ball, I frequently do.


RULE 9: Think Small

SITUATION: The company is in crisis mode and everyone has been given more responsibility.
HIS MOVE: He assumes he can do what has to be done, and slowly and methodically gets to work.
HER MOVE: Feeling overwhelmed, she frets away valuable time.

Boys like games that are straightforward. They want to get from point A to point B, and they want to win while doing it.

Girls prefer games that offer a variety of possibilities. In the dollhouse, for example, there are dozens of options to consider—where should the living-room furniture go, where should Daddy sit, would Baby be happy with a view of the back-yard?—and a multitude of tasks. Rather than racing to reach some kind of goal or endpoint, girls enjoy drawing out the game, making up stories about the occupants of each room, inventing relationships, personal histories. By and large, as these games turn more complicated, as the relationships between the characters grow more involving, the more interested a girl becomes.

These games teach us to become multitaskers, and this ability to multitask becomes part of a woman's existence. As in the dollhouse, there are myriad responsibilities to attend to in a real house every day.

Unfortunately, women are apt to bring our dollhouse/real house sensibility to the office. As a result, not only do we have to focus on our new important project, we also worry if our mother went to her doctor's appointment; if our daughter did her homework; if our son got beat up by the school bully; if the cleaning woman changed the beds in the guest room, which makes us remember that we still haven't bought groceries for our sister's visit this weekend, or that we need to get the slipcovers replaced.

At home, overwhelmed or not, we cope with our responsibilities because the solutions are well-defined. We can deal with a crying baby by picking her up and soothing her. Unfortunately, we can't do the same with the budget projections. Spread sheets don't calm down with a hug and a burp.

"It's too much," we say. "I can't get it done." "I'm giving up."

A recent international poll conducted by the Roper Organization shows that not only are female executives more likely to say they are "super-stressed" than men, but that white-collar and blue-collar women are equally likely to feel this way.

THE PROBLEM: You feel so overwhelmed by the amount of work on your desk that you can't concentrate.

WHAT TO DO: I remember the exact anecdote that helped me figure out how to cope when I felt overwhelmed. It concerns the 1950s English track star Sir Roger Bannister, who, along with his competitors, was trying to run the first four-minute mile.

Bannister's coach knew Bannister could run a quarter mile in one minute, sometimes even a little less. So he devised a clever psychological trick: He taught Bannister to stop focusing on the event as one mile long and instead to think of it as four quarter-mile sprints, and to run each one in a minute or less.

Bannister was able to reframe the picture and he broke the record—and was knighted for it two decades later.

By making the ultimate goal seem impossible to attain, we can become immobilized, unable to understand how to get from here to there. But there are few projects that can't be broken into smaller, more manageable pieces, making the distance between here and there seem a great deal closer.

The guy down the hall is clear about this. He knows the drill. He takes the first thing he has to do, concentrates on it, finishes it, then moves on to the second thing, concentrates on it, gets it done, and so on down the line.

Men can work like this because the larger picture doesn't distract them. As we have seen, men compartmentalize. Their lives have parameters; they walk into the office, and they're clear—this is my office, this is what I get paid to do. Like racehorses, men don't mind wearing blinders to help them focus on what needs to be done.

We would have a fit if anyone put blinders on us, because blinders would mean that we couldn't communicate with the other horses, or see which horse is walking down the lane, or who's being fed what. But blinders can be useful. They lead you where you want to go—the finish line.

A woman's work is never done, goes the old saying. Don't you believe it. You can always get your work done, when you focus on the pieces one by one.


RULE 10: Don't Anguish

SITUATION: Two days are left before the big presentation and the work isn't finished.
HIS MOVE: He doesn't let on that he's worried.
HER MOVE: She tells her friends that she knows she won't be ready.

I once knew an exceptionally talented woman who worked for a large company, where she was known as the local Ally McBeal. She told her troubles to everyone who would listen. Every mistake, real or imagined, became the subject of a long conversation. Every self-destructive thought was verbalized. Every dreary moment was grist for the rumor mill.

The woman saw nothing wrong with her behavior. She even volunteered that her therapist (whom everyone heard plenty about) recommended that she share her feelings as often as possible.

As was frequently pointed out, her therapist didn't have to share an office with her. Those who did found themselves so burdened by her inappropriate disclosures that they turned her into a pariah. No one would volunteer to start a project with her. No one would want to take a trip with her. Her career slumped, which made her worry more, which made her talk more.

Remember this: Guys wear their game face. Even when the odds are against them, they still try to look as if they're going to win. And who knows, maybe they will.

Little girls are brought up to be nice. In turn, we want everybody and everything else to be nice too. When they aren't, we anguish openly about anything and everything—what's the best restaurant for a client luncheon? Are these the right clothes for the meeting? Is promotion really a possibility? Are the budget projections accurate? Is the weather good?

I'm not saying that guys don't worry. Of course they do. But they know that when the competition is intense, you don't let your anxiety show—unless you have a compelling reason to do so. Say the substitute comes into the game to help charge everyone up. He doesn't tell his teammates that he should be looking after his grandmother, and his foot hurts, and he doesn't want to have to compete against his cousin on the other team.

Women are more apt to show vulnerability than guys in all areas of life; we were encouraged as young girls to tell Mommy what's wrong. We got attention for sharing our problems. "Does it hurt? Mommy will make it better," were among the kindest words we heard.

Today you're not worrying about your skinned knee but about tomorrow's presentation, and you're tempted to share your fears with your colleagues. What you want is the same kind of reassurance you got when you were young. "You'll be fine, you'll do great."

But the guy in the cubicle next door isn't Daddy. He has no interest in your inner turmoil. And you don't want him to know. Because if he does, someday he could use it against you. That may be unfair, but that's business.

THE PROBLEM: Nervous and stressed out, you want to discuss your problems with others.

WHAT TO DO: Don't. Anguish in private.

But if you absolutely feel you have to confide in a co-worker, pick someone you can trust, someone who won't use your anxiety against you, someone who can help you focus on what needs to be done, rather than on what went wrong.

Bear in mind: If you're anguishing all the time, you must ask yourself if your work is really the source of your difficulties—or could the real problem be a personal issue that you're reluctant to discuss with your family or close friends?

HINT: If you're a boss, part of your job is to maintain control. That doesn't mean that you can't show you have questions or problems. If your department isn't going to meet its numbers, for instance, it's your responsibility to put your group on notice. But if you start telling everyone that the project is doomed to fail, either you will undermine everyone's self-confidence and the project truly will collapse, or your employees will think of you as a worrywart and they'll stop listening to you.
