Provoking the Angels of Money
CHAPTER ONE
The clock was striking seventeen and clouds above the city of London
were the colour of a colourless television set tuned to a still station;
gloomy, wet and not much traffic to raise the day to life. It was one of
those days I did not expect anything to happen more than I expected to be
the first man to land on the moon but it happened anyway. Like most of
my visions it all ensued without warning;
“Seeding does not work”
I gulped my water hurriedly, shoved away the book on the Physics of
Organism by Mao Wan Ho I was perusing, slamming it on the velvet
upholstered door pockets behind me, ran my fingers down the middle
console as fast as my right hand could go without the help of my eyes. My
wife BeBe could see the urgency in my actions yet she remained steady on
the road and as focused as the rock of Gibraltar. She was as sure as
December that I was hearing something. In the meanwhile, my feet were
pounding on the padded floor, as my hand fumbled to locate the electronic
note pad. I had to hurry. I needed to take notes. You see BeBe and I have
been in these situations many times and matter-of-factly, almost every
book I have ever written was received in a vison like the one I had just
entered into so with the statement;
“Seeding does not work”
I just knew there was more to come. My head was throwing questions at
more than the speed of light. How can this be correct when God had so
many times given me revelation upon revelation on the seed and allowed
me to teach on it around the world? Now he was telling me without
reservation;
“Seeding does not work”
I sat there frozen as dead waiting for the next word. It was fast and quick.
“I never intended seeding to be for my people because it’s not
exclusive to them for I am a God of mercy who makes the rains to fall
on the field of the sinner as much as the righteous. Remember I said
that very fact in Matthew 5:45”
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
Immediately my spirit recalled Mathew 5:45 and sure enough it says;
“… he maketh  his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth
rain on the just and on the unjust.”
As I was about to get deeper into analysing that passage of scripture, he
sent his revelation flying in another angle.
“Have you not read what I do for the sparrows?”
That I knew so I went straight in the vaults of my spirit to retrieve as it
were Mathew 6:25-26
“Therefore I say unto you, Be not anxious for your life, what ye shall
eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put
on. Is not the life more than the food, and the body than the
raiment? Behold the birds of the heaven, that they sow not, neither do
they reap, nor gather into barns; and your heavenly Father feedeth
them. Are not ye of much more value than they?”
I looked at it and I don’t how I had missed it. All these years I’d read it,
yet I never saw that the Lord was communicating a certain truth that most
believers haven’t caught yet. There it was staring at me;
“...they neither SOW nor REAP…”
The Lord continued…
“birds do not have the SOWING and REAPING principle but I take
care of them so why do you think you need to sow to make me
respond?”
I was shocked but the revelation kept on coming;
“Sowing is for all people, unrighteous and the righteous, but for my
children I have another way for them to succeed that doesn’t include
just sowing and reaping. A better way that if they catch it they will be
freed from the difficulties of seeding”
THE LIMITATIONS OF SOWING AND REAPING
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
I could not believe what I was hearing, but how could I argue with it when
its right there in red in my own bible. The laws of sowing and reaping
mean that your harvest is subject not only to your ability to sow, but also
to the times and seasons that bring the harvest. As sons and daughters of
the Most High, God never intended for you to be subject to the elements,
but for you to live above the elements, especially when it comes to the
issue of finances.
I want you to look very carefully at that scripture in the book of Matthew
where the Lord deals exclusively with financial provision specifically for
the believer, watch what the scripture says;
Matthew 6: 25
Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall
eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body what ye shall put on.
Is not life more than meat, and the body than raiment?
I know when many read that scripture, they immediately rush to saying,
‘see, material things are not important to God’, you cannot be further
from the truth. All you have to do is read all the way down to verse 32 and
you will fix your confusion in that line.
Watch what the scripture says;
Matthew 6: 32
For after all these things do the Gentiles seek, for your heavenly
Father knoweth the ye have need of all these things.
According to that scripture God knows that you need food and shelter,
notice the scripture actually says, you need, so even God deems these
things to be necessities. He doesn’t expect you to live like a pauper here on
earth and only enjoy when you get to heaven. He says its necessary and
needful that you be well clothed and well fed. And notice he has already
told us that the Gentiles or the unbelievers are seeking after these things.
The fact that the Lord Jesus is telling us in that scripture that the Gentiles
are seeking after these things, in whatever way that they are doing it
whether it be through working long hours, gambling or any other way,
means as for you the believer, there ought to be a different way of getting
the same result that they are after. That is the biggest point that he is
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
making right there. Even if you look in the old testament you will find the
same thing, watch what the bible says in the book of Proverbs.
Proverbs 23: 4
Labour not to be rich: cease from thine own wisdom.
If you are not supposed to labour to become rich what then are you
supposed to do? The labouring to be rich is meant for the Gentiles, not the
believers and that is why the scripture says labour not to be rich, there is
another way brothers and sisters.
Now I want us to go back to that scripture once more before we dig deeper
into a better way than sowing and reaping method;
Matthew 6: 25- 26
Therefore I say unto you, Be not anxious for your life, what ye shall
eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put
on. Is not the life more than the food, and the body than the
raiment? Behold the birds of the heaven, that they sow not, neither do
they reap, nor gather into barns; and your heavenly Father feedeth
them. Are not ye of much more value than they?
In the scripture above the Lord clearly tells us that he is able to furnish and
look after you better than the birds of heaven, that don’t even sow nor
reap. So, the church has taken the principle of sowing and reaping and
have made it the primary source of provision, yet the Lord insists right
there that he is able to supply the believer apart from sowing and reaping.
Now understand me here, I am NOT saying that there is no such thing as
sowing and reaping, it’s a law that will still work as long as the earth
remains watch what the scripture says;
Genesis 8: 22
While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat,
and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.
So, seeding works in a measure for junior believers and for the world but
has a lot that makes it to not reap results. It is absolutely not the best that
God has for the believer for gambling might even give us better results
than sowing. Notice, the scripture calls it seed time so there is a timing that
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
must be observed for the seeding process to work. The seeding process is
subject to the times and seasons which makes the believer subject to the
elements that he is supposed to take dominion over.
But there is something I want you to notice in scripture how the Lord Jesus
Himself was not subject to the laws of sowing and reaping. Have you ever
wondered why it is that the Lord Jesus could curse a fig tree just for the
mere fact that it did not carry the fruit he wanted yet it was out of season
for the fig tree to bear fruit? That is because he was not subject to the times
and seasons, he knew that when he required fruit there should be fruit.
Watch what the scripture says;
Mark 11: 13
And seeing a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came if haply he might
find anything thereon and when he came to it, he found nothing but
leaves; for the time of figs was not yet. And Jesus answered and said
unto it, No man eat fruit of thee heareafter for ever.
The Lord knew that this was not the season for fig trees to bear fruit and
let me tell you something, the bible doesn’t just pile up facts we are given
that information for a reason. It was unreasonable for him to demand fruit
from the tree when it was out of season. According to the laws of seed
time and harvest there was not supposed to be any fruit on that tree, and
yet Jesus stood there, demanding fruit. This is where I need you to follow
very carefully. The scripture tells us that the Lord ‘answered’, Jesus
answered and said unto it.
Now that Greek word translated as answered on that passage of scripture is
apokrinomai, which means to begin to speak where an address is
expected. In other words, it is speaking in response to what has already
been said. It is the same Greek word that is used when the Lord Jesus was
responding to the devil when he was being tempted, let’s look at that
scripture;
Matthew 4: 3- 4
And when the tempter came to him, he said, if thou be the Son of God,
command that these stones be made bread. But he answered
(apokrinomai) and said, it is written, Man shall not live by bread
alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God.
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
So that Greek word apokrinomai points us to the fact that Jesus was
cursing the fig tree in response to something that it had said that the
disciples who recorded the conversation for us did not understand but
knew that there was a dialogue between the two. He was definitely not
responding to any of the disciples because the response was given to the
tree, and we have no mention of any of the disciples saying anything about
the issue until 48 hours later when they pass by the same tree and find it
withered.
Jesus could find fruit out of season available because he was not subject to
the times and seasons that control the laws of seed time and harvest but he
was Lord over them, hallelujah! Now, now I know I need to break it down
for you, I know that it is the Lord who gave us the law of seedtime and
harvest and many are wondering why he would oppose those laws. It is the
same argument that the Pharisees were presenting to him about the
Sabbath, they demanded to know why it is that the Lord was not observing
the Sabbath. Watch what the scripture says;
Mark 2: 23
And it came to pass, that he went through the cornfields on the
Sabbath day and his disciples began, as they went, to pluck the ears of
the corn.  And the Pharisees said unto him, Behold, why do they on
the Sabbath day that which is not lawful?
The Pharisees were quoting the law correctly there, this was not supposed
to be done on the Sabbath according to the law. What they did not
understand is that they had met the Lord of the Sabbath, watch what the
scripture says;
Mark 2: 27
And he said unto them, the Sabbath was made for man, and not man
for the Sabbath: Therefore the Son of man is Lord also of the
Sabbath.
These are laws that applied to every Jew but the Lord brought a different
revelation, that He is Lord of the Sabbath, in the same way that there are
times and seasons that govern the seeding and harvest time. He could
demand a harvest at any time and it had to happen. When you are
governed by the laws of seed time and harvest you are no different to the
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
rest of the world that don’t even believe in Christ, they just work those
principles to get by.
Sowing and Reaping vs Kingdom Provision
Now I am not saying here that you should not sow and expect a harvest
from God, oh no! I am just pointing to the fact that this is not the best that
God meant for you. He boasts in his ability to feed the birds of the air that
don’t sow or reap, and then tells us that you are more important than they
are. So how come none of those birds have ever dropped from the air
because of hunger, and yet believers are living below the poverty datum
line when God insists that you are more important? Its either scripture is
wrong or we are missing something very important here. I know that’s
confusing right now but for you to understand where I am going with this I
want us to look at a verse of scripture in the book of Romans chapter 1.
Romans 1: 19- 20
For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are
clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his
eternal power and Godhead; so that they are without excuse.
I know the King James language can be a bit difficult so let me break it
down for you. That scripture is actually telling us that what can be known
about God is plain to everyman because God has shown it to them plainly.
His invisible attributes and divine nature being perceived in the creation of
the world and in the things that have been made. So, the scripture is telling
us that there is an undeniable testimony of God’s existence in the things
that He created so men are without excuse. The fact that you do not know
what factory manufactures the sparrows, means that when you see them
flying around, that alone should tell you that there is a creator somewhere.
The only reason God feeds them and looks after them is that they are
serving a purpose in the kingdom of God, they are testifying to the
existence of their maker. The reason why you are suffering and don’t have
two pennies to rub together is that even when you sow you are only doing
it to enrich yourself and not to serve the kingdom of God. Understand that
the sole purpose of the sparrows’ existence is to bear witness to all men of
the fact that there is a God in heaven and because their very existence is
for the purpose of serving the kingdom of God, they are supplied from the
same kingdom. They don’t have to worry about tomorrow or the day after
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
they’re well looked after.
This is a sharp contrast to the believer, who even when he brings an
offering to the Lord, the only thing on his mind is how he can enrich
himself and nothing at all to do with the kingdom of God. This is the
category that the majority of believers fall into, they have no access to the
provisions of God because their hearts are not in the kingdom that they are
trying to take advantage of. This revelation was just as shocking to me as it
is to you right now when the Lord began to unveil it to me. He had
completely messed up my theology and just when I thought it couldn’t get
any worse he continued.
“Do you know why I blessed Solomon the way I did?”
‘Well he gave you a big seed so you were pleased with his offering,’ came
my answer but again I was wrong, and he continued.
“Remember I have already told you that the earth and the fullness
thereof belongs to me, so whatever you decide to give me already
belongs to me before it ever gets into your hands. So even though I
require a seed it is not the thing that caused me to bless Solomon in
the way I did. Read what the scripture says in 1 Kings.”
1 Kings 3: 5
In Gibeon the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night: and
God said, Ask what I shall give thee.
I know you are familiar with that passage of scripture but what the Lord
was about to show me absolutely blew my mind. Right there the Lord had
just given Solomon a blank cheque as it were. He could have asked for a
pink elephant and it would have been granted. Imagine God almighty
coming to you and saying, ask me anything right now and you can have it,
I know many would have gone on a shopping spree right there but let’s
have a look at what Solomon did ask for.
1 Kings 3: 8- 9
And thy servant in in the midst of thy people which thou hast chosen,
a great people, that cannot be numbered or counted for multitude.
Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to judge thy
people, that I may discern between good and bad for who is able to
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
judge this thy so great a people?
Now this is where I really need you to follow this carefully, notice in that
scripture that the request of Solomon to God was centred on only one thing
and that was the people of God. He said to the Lord, give me an
understanding heart, why? Was it so that all the world could marvel at his
wisdom? The answer is the very next sentence, to judge thy people. Now
let me explain something right there, God had already committed to
granting whatever Solomon was going to ask, so it wasn’t a matter of, if he
doesn’t ask for the right thing he will not get it, oh no, this was a done
deal.
Even though he had this opportunity the thing that was on the heart of
Solomon was the people of God and so he asked for wisdom to serve the
kingdom of God and watch how God responded to his request.
1 Kings 3: 10
And the speech pleased the Lord, that Solomon had asked this thing.
And God said unto him, because thou hast asked this thing, and hast
not asked for thyself long life; neither hast asked riches for thyself,
nor hast asked the life of thine enemies; but hast asked for thyself
understanding to discern judgement:
The scripture says, the speech pleased the Lord, that Solomon had asked
this thing. Notice the thing that Solomon had asked for was for
understanding to judge the people of God. The Lord actually says to him
right there that because you have not asked for yourself long life, riches for
thyself or the life of thine enemies. That means that Solomon was within
his right to ask God for long life, riches and the life of his enemies, that
request would have been granted. Solomon chose to put the things of God
first before his own needs, he was kingdom minded and because of that he
automatically tapped into the inexhaustible resources of the kingdom of
God.
He had just managed to tap into an open heaven kind of blessing in both
riches and wisdom. Let’s look at that scripture one more time;
1 Kings 3: 12
behold, I have done according to thy words, lo, I have given thee a
wise and an understanding heart; so that there was none like thee
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
before thee, neither after thee shall any arise like unto thee. And I
have also given thee that which thou hast not asked, both riches, and
honour, so that there shall not be any among the kings like unto thee
all thy days.
To this day Solomon is famous for being the wisest and richest king that
have ever walked the earth and key to him receiving all this was a mind
that was kingdom centred, IT WASN’T SEED CENTRED. Just the same
as the sparrows that the Lord takes care of, Solomon tapped into the
kingdom supply, he was a Kingdom addict. The Lord actually spells out in
the book of Matthew that you have to be a kingdom addict to tap into the
resources of Heaven otherwise like the rest of the world you are still
subject to the principle of sowing and reaping.
Matthew 6: 33
But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness, and all
these things shall be added unto you.
Notice that scripture says to, seek first the Kingdom of God, Gentiles are
seeking riches but as for the children of God, they are meant to seek the
kingdom of God first and the bible says that all these things shall be added
unto you. There is no doubt as to what things the Lord is referring to here.
They are the same things that he has been talking about from the 25th verse
now we are at the end of the chapter and he is drawing the whole thing to a
conclusion.
Notice here that he does not say, seek the kingdom of God first then you
will sow and reap these things, no. He says that, these things shall be
added unto you, that Greek word translated as added in that passage is
prostithemi and it means to place in addition. That means the moment the
kingdom of God becomes first place in your heart the addition of the
things you need is up to God himself. Do you see this is why I said seeding
doesn’t work!
Look at the word translated as seek in that passage of scripture. It is the
Greek word epizeteo and it means to crave and search for. That means the
children of God are not supposed to be craving or seeking after provisions
in the rat race with the rest of the world. They ought to seek the kingdom
needs and fulfil them and become kingdom addicts then riches are added
to them. You see you ought to be living in the abundance of His provision
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
as promised in that scripture, but many have missed it and as the Lord
began to take me line by line my mind went into overdrive. Hang in there
I’m about to reveal a truth in the next few passages that will transform
your financial future.
When the Lord sent out his disciples two by two to go and do the work of
the ministry he commanded them saying, do not take any provisions with
you. They were going out on an assignment for the kingdom of God, He
was obligated to meet their needs because they were taking care of
kingdom business.
Luke 22: 35
And he said unto them, when I sent you without purse, and scrip, and
shoes, lacked ye anything? And they said, nothing.
Jesus was not talking about spiritual shoes and spiritual purses here, he
was referring to the material things that they needed for their upkeep. And
Jesus never said sow a seed and when you go out see if you will lack
anything, no! He was teaching them a very simple principle that is better
than the law of sowing and reaping, you mind the kingdom and the
kingdom will mind you. Now I know someone is now thinking but I’m not
a minister, you are a child of God and when you put the things of the
kingdom even in your taking care of the house of God financially you are
positioning yourself for kingdom provisions.
 
Angels of Money
Before we touch this subject of angels of money it is important that we
refer back to the scripture we touched earlier on. That scripture we just
read said,
“these things will be added unto you”,
Financial and wealth additions come after we seek first the kingdom so it
is then safe to say provision is for kingdom addicts. But there is an area
that most believers are not even aware of that God has made for them to
prosper and just when I was thinking that we cannot possibly go deeper
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
with the subject the Lord continued.
I have assigned angels for the prosperity of my people but the biggest
problem is that they have not yet understood how things actually work
when it comes to their finances.
When you become a kingdom addict you are already attracting angels of
money to begin to work in your life. You can sow and reap and still have
that harvest that you have received from your seed ransacked by the
enemy.
You should understand that in my ministry and calling as a prophet of God
I am no stranger to the ministry of angels. When I minister prophetically at
times the Lord will direct me using angels. So, the fact that angels help us
in ministry was something that I never doubted. I am also familiar with
angels of protection; I’ve seen them protecting me many times and many a
times in visions angels of protection have appeared to me bringing
assurance that the Lord was with me. However, I still had questions on this
point of angels of money so Him knowing my ignorance the Lord
continued to elaborate.
“Have you not read how I commanded the Israelites to go and borrow
silver and gold from their Egyptian masters so they would not come
out of bondage empty handed?”
Exodus 11: 2
Speak now in the ears of the people, and let every man borrow of his
neighbour, and every woman of her neighbour, jewels of silver, and
jewels of gold.
I know most of you will be familiar with that passage of scripture but this
is where I really need you to follow very carefully. You need to understand
that when the Egyptians came after the people of God who were on foot
they used the best horses and chariots they had in that age. According to
the scripture they actually came close enough to the extent that the people
began to fear because with the Egyptians on their heels death was eminent.
The Egyptians actually caught up with them.
Exodus 14: 9, 10
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
But the Egyptians pursued after them, all the horses and chariots of
pharaoh, and his horsemen, and his army, and overtook them
encamping by the sea, beside Pihahiroth, before Baalzephon. And
when pharaoh drew nigh, the children of Israel lifted up their eyes,
and, behold, the Egyptians marched after them; and they were sore
afraid and the children of Israel cried out unto the Lord.
The Israelites were not only running away from their captivity but they
were running away with the wealth of Egypt. I can assure you that when
they went to borrow the jewels of silver and of gold it was with a promise
that these would be returned, however this was not the plan of God. The
whole picture was about to get a whole lot clearer as the Lord continued.
“I sent my angels to take the wheels off the chariots of the Egyptians
so they would perish in the sea and my people would not have to repay
what they had borrowed. It was a debt cancellation operation and not
just an exodus.”
My mouth was open with shock. I just realised this was debt cancellation
of a high magnitude. Most folks concentrate on the divine help to escape
part only. The angels of money had taken charge. I rushed to open my
bible in Exodus 14: 24,25
And it came to pass that in the morning watch the Lord looked unto
the host of the Egyptians through the pillar of fire and of the cloud
and troubled the host of the Egyptians, and took off their chariot
wheels, that they drove them heavily; so that the Egyptians said, let us
flee from the face of Israel; for the Lord fighteth for them against the
Egyptians.
According to that scripture, there was no doubt in the minds of the
Egyptians what was going on when the wheels started to come the
chariots. They knew this thing was the work of the God of Israel. He had
sent his angels to destroy them. That day the debt of Israel was cancelled
when God sent his angels to remove the wheels from the Egyptian chariots
Pharaoh and the Egyptians perished in the Red sea. Even in this present-
day God still uses angels to ensure the prosperity of those that are kingdom
addicts. In my ministry, we have several serious debt cancellation
testimonies from household bills to mortgages being paid up. These are the
angels of money at work.
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
When the angels of money are on assignment there is nothing that the
enemy can do to rob you of your finances, everything you touch will
prosper, even the harvest you reap when you sow the devil will not be able
to touch. In fact, even when you look at the scripture that most like to
quote when it comes to the issue finances God actually declares to you and
makes it known that when it comes to the issue of finances there are angels
on assignment to ensure the prosperity of those that are kingdom addicts.
Angels on assignment
Malachi 3: 11
And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he shall not
destroy the fruits of your ground; neither shall your vine cast her fruit
before the time in the field, saith the Lord of hosts.
If only people would read their bibles it would save the hours of unfruitful
binding and loosing during those ‘all-night’ prayer meetings. Now don’t
get me wrong there is absolutely nothing wrong with you praying all night,
but there are some things that will never yield any fruit. The Lord himself
says that he will rebuke the devourer and keep the enemy that has been
ransacking your finances at bay. But I want you to notice something right
there. The way the Lord ends that statement is actually an indication of
how he was going to deal with the finances of the people.
Notice after stating everything that he was going to do he then signs off as,
the Lord of hosts. Now the Hebrew word translated as host is tsaba, and it
means mass of persons mobilised for warfare. So, when God calls himself
the Lord of hosts in that passage of scripture he is literally telling you that
he comes as the Commander in chief of angel armies when it comes to
dealing with the finances of those that are kingdom addicts.
Brothers and sisters when it comes to your tithing or giving when you
make the decision to always put God first you provoke the angel armies to
go to war for your finances. There is no one who has ever put the kingdom
of God first and lacked. The biggest problem in the church right now is
that many are busy trying to get rich using the kingdom of God that they
have forgotten to actually put God first in everything that has to do with
this life.
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
God already knows what you need before you even ask him and as a father
it is his will to provide for you. He delights himself in the prosperity of his
servants, he wants to bless you beyond your wildest dreams. Angels go on
assignment to bring your money the moment the kingdom of God takes
first place and priority in your life.
God uses angels to do many things including for the protection of believers
and to deliver answers to the prayers of the saints. Even when you go into
the scriptures you will find the prophet Daniel praying and when the
answer to his prayer is hindered, re-enforcement angels are dispatched to
get the job done. We know that angels can be messengers that God uses in
response to our prayers but the Lord was about to show me something that
absolutely blew my mind.
The Lord began to show how throughout the bible he has used angelic
beings to bring prosperity to his people. Now I am a student of the word
and I had never heard of this and like many of you right now I had a lot of
questions on my mind. Before I could even voice my thoughts, the answers
began to come.
“What do you think I meant in Psalm 91 when I said I will give my
angels charge over you”
My answer came very swiftly. I have read that scripture many times and
every time I read the picture that came to mind was one of the prophet
Elisha when he was seemingly under siege and asked the Lord to open the
eyes of his servant and behold there was an even greater army of angels
than the enemy that had come against him. So, in my mind like many of
you that have read that scripture I immediately went to angels of
protection. But these were not just angels of protection as I was about to
learn, let us look at that particular scripture;
Psalm 91: 11
For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy
ways.
By assuming that all the Lord was talking about in that scripture is only
referring to protection you actually put a limitation on what God wanted to
do. Notice the scripture says, to keep you in all thy ways, that means the
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
angels where not just being dispatched to bring protection only. The phrase
all thy ways means everything that concerns you not just your physical or
spiritual wellbeing. The word translated as keep in that scripture is the
Hebrew word shamar and it means to hedge about with thorns, to
preserve.
So the angels are dispatched to bring a hedge around you. They were
deployed to bring a shamar, and it is not just for protection from physical
harm it also shields you against everything that enemy can throw against
your finances. I was still trying to get my head around this whole thing
when the Lord continued;
“This is exactly what I had done for Job and he was prosperous
because Satan could not touch him financially I had a hedge around
him, read what the scripture says.”
I quickly flipped my bible to the book of Job chapter 1 and there it was
right in front of me.
Job 1: 8-9
And the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job,
that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man,
one that feareth God, and escheweth evil? Then Satan answered the
Lord, and said, doth Job fear God for nought? Hast thou not made an
hedge about him, and about his house, and about all he hath on every
side? Thou hast blessed the work of his hands and his substance is
increased in the land.
Satan was actually protesting to God that Job was untouchable in his
family, his household and his finances because of the hedge that was
around him. So, the line in Psalm 91 he had just pointed to me was that the
angels were there to bring that hedge around you, hallelujah! The Lord had
given his angels charge over Job to keep him and now there was a hedge
around Job that made him untouchable to the enemy. That was angelic
protection in his finances, over his family and over everything he had.
As you read further in the book of Job you will find that as soon as that
hedge of angelic protection was removed the enemy could ransack
everything that Job had, he lost it all almost as if overnight including his
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
wealth. You see now that there are angels assigned to those that are
kingdom financiers making them untouchable to any attack of the enemy
in the area of finances. Your prosperity is dependent on your ability to
provoke the angels of money, you are the living proof that it is not just
about sowing and reaping because even for as long as you have been doing
it you are still not a millionaire. I know this is a lot for the first chapter but
as we go into this next chapter I need you to follow closely we are about to
go deeper.
CHAPTER TWO
PROMISE vs KINGDOM
Many of God’s people are familiar with the principle of sowing and
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
reaping as well as the promises of God when it comes to the issue of
prosperity.
Now you need to understand that as a student of Papa Kenneth Hagin, I
have studied and taught the subject of faith for many years. In fact, I’ve
done so throughout my ministry but what I was about to learn would
forever change my world. I was fascinated by the father of faith, Abraham,
how he had inherited every promise of God through faith and after all the
bible says that, without faith it is impossible to please God.
Hebrews 11: 6 says:
But without faith it is impossible to please him for he that cometh to
God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that
diligently seek him.
So definitely we are not doing away with faith, but there is a dimension
that the church has not yet tapped into when it comes to the provisions of
God. Abraham was a man of the promise and he knew that the principle of
sowing and reaping works and he worked the living day lights out of it.
Abraham had obeyed God many times in his walk with God, but no test
could have been more severe than the one in Genesis 22.
Gospel of the Promise
Before we get into that you need to understand that Abraham’s biggest
prayer request to God at this point in time was for a son, watch what the
scripture says;
Genesis 15: 2
And Abram said, Lord God, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go
childless, and the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus?
And Abram said, behold, to me thou hast given no seed and lo: one
born in mine house is mine heir.
God had to now teach him the principles of faith and how to inherit his
promises. This is why he took him and began to show him the stars of the
sky, the sand on the ground and every time he would see them he would be
reminded of the promise of God. The reality of the promise of God would
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
come alive each time he would look up in the sky until it was more real to
him that the deadness of Sarah’s womb would change and Isaac was born
as a result of his faith in the promise.
This arena where Abraham was in faith most believers are comfortable
with but what the Lord began to show me changed my life and I really
need you to follow closely as we go deeper into the word.
Romans 4: 19- 20
And being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body now
dead, when he was about a hundred years old, neither yet the
deadness of Sarah’s womb. He staggered not at the promise of God
through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God.
So, Isaac was the promise of God to Abraham, he was the harvest. Every
promise that he had been given hinged on this one thing and God
delivered. The plan of God for Abraham was that the whole world would
be blessed through Abraham and to do that he had to take him beyond
sowing for a harvest. It had to be to the point where his heart was knit to
God such that everything he would do would be for the kingdom of God.
Abraham was a man of promise but God wanted him to become a
Kingdom addict. Until this time, it was as if God had to dangle a carrot in
front of Abraham for him to do anything even when he was asked to leave
the land of his fathers it came with a promise.
Genesis 12: 1- 2 concurs:
Now the Lord said unto Abram, get thee out of thy country, and from
thy kindred, and from thy father’s house, unto a land that I will show
thee. And I will make thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and
make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing.
As you go through the scriptures you will notice that from the very
beginning God had used the promise to motivate Abraham. He was a man
of the promise and don’t get me wrong that’s not a bad thing but there is a
better way. In all these things God was after the devotion of Abraham, yet
the heart of Abraham would go to the promise and not the God of the
promise. Many believers are still stuck in that place where they want the
promise of God and are so consumed with their need to the extent that they
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
forget the God of the provision they are after.
It is easy for you to mistake your great need for something that God can
provide for actual devotion to God. It was just as shocking to me when the
Lord began to show me these things, his words echoed in my spirit as I
desperately tried to come to terms with this truth I was hearing.
“Abraham loved what I could do for him, before he ever loved me.”
I had always admired Abraham’s resolve to leave everything that was
familiar to him and follow God to a place he didn’t even know. It had
never occurred to me that there were incentives to the whole move that had
very little to do with God himself. Remember this is the father of faith we
are talking about and my mind was racing as I tried to justify the
objections in my mind, but it was all right there in black and white as the
Lord began to take me through the book of Genesis.
Worshiping the Promise
Now notice, God wanted the heart of Abraham and the only way to get it
was to ask for the thing that Abraham had given his heart to and that was
his son Isaac - his long-awaited harvest. Many in the church today wonder
why it is that the issue of money is big with God the answer is very simple.
Nearly half of your waking hours are spent working for money, your
blood, sweat and tears go into it. That is exactly where your heart is, and
because God wants to be first place in your life that is the exact thing that
he will demand that you give him as an offering.
In our world money is so big even God calls it a god, because you serve it
as if it was a god watch what the scripture says;
Matthew 6: 24
No man can serve two masters for either he will hate one, and love the
other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot
serve God and mammon.
So according to that scripture we just read, God actually knows that you
can give to money the devotion that should only be reserved for him alone.
This is why it is such an evil thing to God, for you to try and use him to get
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
more money when you are not committed to the things of the kingdom. It
will be like you robbing one master to go and worship another, it’s a slap
in the face to God. He is after kingdom addicts who are sold out to his
purposes.
I think you got that so let us get back to Abraham. So in Isaac, Abraham
has now received the promise, but what God wanted for him was to make
him the channel for his blessing to come upon the whole world. This could
not be achieved as long as the heart of Abraham was only fixed on what he
could get for himself and not the kingdom of God. Abraham had worked
the living day lights out of the principle of seed time and harvest, but even
that had its limitations.
Kingdom Prosperity
What God wants is to bless you in God proportions not just according to
what you are able to give. However, that level of increase is only for those
whose minds and will are now centred on the kingdom of God. This is
something that the church has completely neglected to teach, even though
when you look into the word of God the same message is echoed from old
to new testament. We teach give, give, give, give, sow, sow, sow, sow,
sow and yet no one is telling the people that God is interested in the
motive of giving being Kingdom centred. That’s why even in tithing he
says “bring all the tithing in the store house so that”
You see he says;
“so that”
That is the reason he is trying to give us. “so that …” so that what? So
that there may be food in my house NOT so that I can open the windows
of heaven. Believers skip the reason for tithing and rush to their pockets.
Now let’s look at that scripture in Genesis 22;
Genesis 22: 2
And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou
lovest, and get thee to the land of Moriah; and offer him there for a
burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of.
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
Now notice here that God actually knew the thing that he was asking for
was what Abraham loved the most. Abraham was rich but he would have
given up all his riches for Isaac without batting an eye and God knew it. So
he went for Isaac, notice the phrase he uses in that scripture, whom thou
lovest, that is where the man’s heart was and for God to move him to the
next level he needed his heart to be centred on the things of the kingdom.
After all, God had chosen Abraham to become the father of many nations
and through whom his seed the Lord Jesus would come to the earth.
This request from God was a bit of an unusual one for Abraham because
when you read further in that passage of scripture you will notice that this
is one offering that did not come with a promise, it was purely for God’s
pleasure. Remember Isaac was the harvest that Abraham had been waiting
for but the Lord was now demanding the harvest for a sacrifice. Abraham
until this point had mastered the art of giving God and expecting a harvest,
so all his giving until this time was only motivated by what he was
anticipating to gain from the sacrifice he was making.
God commanded,
“Take your son, your only son, Isaac, whom you love, and go to the
region of Moriah. Sacrifice him there as a burnt offering”
This was an astounding command because Isaac was the son of promise.
God had promised several times that from Abraham’s own body would
come a nation as multitudinous as the stars in heaven.
Genesis 15: 4- 5
And behold, the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, this shall not
be thine heir, but he that shall come forth from thine own bowels shall
be thine heir. And he brought him forth abroad, and said, look now
toward heaven, and tell the stars, if thou be able to number them; and
he said unto him, so shall thy seed be.
It almost seems unfair that God would now demand the only son of
Abraham for a sacrifice so that he would enjoy the sweet-smelling savour
of a sacrifice but God was after the heart of the man.
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
I often tell people if your offering does not move you it will not move
God, that’s the reason why, the thing that moves you has your heart. Many
are content to give God whatever is left over from their spending and still
expect to enjoy kingdom prosperity, it will never happen. As long you are
at that level of sowing and reaping you are not ready for the God sized
blessing and just like the rest of the heathens you remain subject to the
economic conditions in your country. When the rest of the world
experiences a recession, you are in there suffering with them, when God
cannot be limited or be subject to an economic down turn.
Kingdom addicts live life from the mountain top, they don’t suffer with the
rest of the world when the economy goes down.
Anyway, back to Abraham. So Abraham makes the decision to obey the
commandment of God and takes his only son Isaac up the mountain to
offer him for a sacrifice to the living God. Watch what the scripture says;
Genesis 22: 9- 10
And they came to the place which God had told him of; and Abraham
built an altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his
son, and laid him on the altar upon the wood. And Abraham stretched
forth his hand, and took the knife to slay his son.
I really need you to understand what we have just read in that scripture.
Remember even according to God, Isaac was the son whom Abraham
loved and right there he took a rope to tie down his own son to the alter of
sacrifice. At this point in time Isaac was old enough to understand what
was going on and even questioned his father about the sacrifice when they
were on their way up the mountain.
Genesis 22: 7
And Isaac spake unto Abraham his Father, and he said, here am I, my
son. And he said, behold the fire and the wood but where is the lamb
for the burnt offering?
Now imagine the boy’s reaction and horror when his father began to tie
him down to the altar. He knew exactly what was about to happen to him.
Hearing his screams would have been heart breaking for Abraham, this
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
was certainly a sacrifice that moved him. Nevertheless, Abraham had
determined that he would obey God no matter the cost but watch what
happens in verse 11.
Genesis 22: 11
And the angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven, and said,
Abraham, Abraham, and he said, here am I. And he said, lay not thine
hand upon the lad, neither do thou any thing unto him: for now I
know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son,
thine only son from me.
Abraham had almost reached the point of no return when the voice came
out of heaven stopping him from putting a knife through the heart of his
only son. In that very moment God reveals to us the reason why he
demands a sacrifice from believers when it comes to financial prosperity.
He actually says to Abraham don’t do anything to the boy because the
reason I asked you for the sacrifice to begin with has now been fulfilled.
Notice God says, neither do thou any thing unto him, why? The answer is
in the very next sentence, for now I know that thou fearest God, wait a
minute. Abraham had been walking with God now and he turns around
and says, now I know you fear me. So you mean to tell me that all the
while when Abraham was sowing and reaping and following God he still
had not proved his reverence for God? WHY? His heart was still on the
harvest he was receiving and not on the God who was providing the
harvest.
Notice here that God actually said to Abraham don’t touch the boy,
because what he was after was not Isaac, it was the heart of Abraham.
When Abraham moved from just being harvest centred to being God
centred the Lord stopped him from taking the life of his son. Through that
act Abraham became indeed the father of many nations, he had just tapped
into the provisions of the kingdom of God and nothing could be withheld
from him. This one encounter changed Abraham’s revelation of the God
he was serving from sowing and reaping to provoking the angel of money,
watch what the scripture says;
Genesis 22: 14
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
And Abraham called the name of that place Jehova- Jireh, as it is said
to this day, in the mount of the Lord it shall be seen.
The place where this altar was built Abraham named Jehovah-Jireh, words
in the language that Abraham spoke meaning, "The Lord will provide."
Why? because for the first time he realised that it wasn’t his seed that
provided but his commitment to the kingdom of God. Finally, the penny
had dropped and Abraham knew that God can provide without a seed and
that nothing is withheld from kingdom addicts.
My prayer for you as we get into this next chapter is that this revelation
begins to permeate your spirit and position it to receive the provisions of
God. We are just getting warmed up and I need you to follow closely as
we dig even deeper into the word of God. 
CHAPTER THREE
WASTING YOUR MONEY
“Now therefore, thus says the Lord of hosts: ‘Consider your
ways! You have sown much, and bring in little; you eat, but do not
have enough; you drink, but you are not filled with drink; you clothe
yourselves, but no one is warm; and he who earns wages, earns wages
to put into a bag with holes’" (Haggai 1:5-6).
How foolish would it be for you, after working 40 hours a week for a
whole month to get paid only to come and put your money in a pocket
with holes? Month after month to keep doing the same thing is absurd! Yet
this is exactly what believers are doing with their money. I know this
sounds confusing but I want us to look very carefully at that scripture we
just read in the book of Haggai, in fact, lets back up a little bit so you
understand the context of what was being said here.
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
Haggai 1: 3
Then came the word of the Lord by Haggai the prophet, saying, Is it
time for you, O ye, to dwell in your ceiled houses, and this house lie
waste?
At this point in time the people of God had just come back to the promised
land following the decree of Cyrus, King of Persia, to rebuild the temple at
Jerusalem which had been destroyed by the Babylonians. For some reason,
the attention of the people of God had become diverted from their primary
goal to rebuild the temple, and every one of them now focused on building
their own house. They neglected the very thing that God had brought them
back to do and they had actually removed themselves from the provisions
of God and now needed direction, a prophet to give them direction in order
to come back to the place of prosperity.
God Himself had brought curses and not the blessings that they were
seeking upon their efforts to enrich themselves. Many in the body of Christ
today are only after one thing, and that is whatever they can profit from the
kingdom of God. Now don’t get me wrong here I am not saying that God
does not want you to prosper, oh no! in fact the bible tells us that He
delights in the prosperity of His servants, watch what the scripture says in
Psalm 35;
Psalm 35: 27
Let them shout for joy, and be glad, that favour my righteous cause,
yea, let them say continually, Let the Lord be magnified, which hath
pleasure in the prosperity of his servant.
So, the God of prosperity had just turned on his own people, like many
believers today there was something they were doing which was short
circuiting the prosperity that was meant to come their way. If you ask
many today, there is no doubt in their mind about how God is able to
provide for them even beyond their expectations. Yet in all this they still
go without, even though in their hearts and minds they are serving the God
of prosperity.
These were God’s own people but their experiences seemed to just come
short of what God had promised. I know I have many witnesses right now.
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
David even said in the book of Psalm; I have never seen the righteous
forsaken nor his seed begging bread, yet we have millions of believers
living from hand to mouth, even though according to scripture they are the
righteousness of God in Christ. Even the streets of heaven are paved in
gold yet here on earth heirs to the kingdom of God are living like paupers.
I really want you to think about this carefully, the bible actually tells us
that everything
in this world as we know it, belongs to God. If you as a mother or father
owned the city that you live in today your children would be living like
kings, because their father owns the whole joint. Yet as a child of the
Almighty God who owns everything you are still broke. Watch what the
scripture says;
Psalm 24: 1
The earth is the LORD'S, and the fulness thereof; the world, and they
that dwell therein.
God owns everything even that which you bring to him belongs to him
before it gets into your hands. The scripture is very clear on this, the earth
is the Lord’s and the fullness thereof. So, the earth does not belong to the
devil and his crew it’s the Lords’ who is our Father but I want you to really
understand why things were going wrong for the people of God here. Let’s
look at what the scripture says in the second verse of this same chapter.
Haggai 1: 2
Thus speaketh the Lord of Hosts, saying, This people say, The time is
not come, the time that the Lord’s house should be built.
Now the Lord was saying that the people had actually put off the due time
for the completion of the building of the temple, to concentrate on building
their own houses. They were no longer mindful of what was needed in the
kingdom of God but focused their efforts inward. Even though like many
today they still professed the name of God he no longer had their hearts.
Putting First Things First
The results were a devastation of their finances they couldn’t make heads
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
or tails of what was going on. Watch what the scripture says;
Haggai 1: 11
And I called for a drought upon the land, and upon the mountains,
and upon the corn, and upon the new wine, and upon the oil, and upon
that which the ground bringeth forth, and upon men, and upon cattle,
and upon all the labour of the hands.
Because of their neglect of the kingdom of God a curse had come upon the
children of Israel. Notice, God had called a drought upon the land. He
knew that even though he had withheld his blessing the people could still
employ the law of Seed time and harvest so he called for a drought upon
the land itself. Now it didn’t matter what they sowed, the ground was not
going to yield anything. So the earth itself knew not to yield fruit for
anyone who was not kingdom centred.
This is why you find individuals in the church today who no matter what
they try to do to prosper and better their lives nothing works. Even in the
month that they work hard and do a lot of overtime an unexpected bill
comes to deplete that bank balance, and it’s as if they never had any
money to begin with. Have you ever gone into town with a hundred-dollar
bill and came back with only sixty yet you cannot account for the missing
forty dollars or you still only can account for the twenty dollars you used
but never for the other twenty? You are putting your money in pockets and
bags with holes.
Kingdom Ambassadors
The root of the problem lies in how the things of the kingdom of God have
now taken a back seat in your life. You are meant to be supplied from the
kingdom but when you neglect the things of God you are disconnected
from the provisions of heaven. As the church, we are ambassadors for the
kingdom of God, but even in the natural, any diplomat who seizes to
represent the interest of his home country and pushes his own agenda will
be cut off from the supplies of the country of origin. 
One of the advantages of being an ambassador is that even if the economy
of your country of residence plummets you are still paid from home and
you do not suffer the same fate as the natives of that country, but when you
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
are cut off you no longer have that luxury. You are left subject to the
elements and according to the book of Haggai even the seed you sow will
not yield anything meaningful.
Haggai 1: 11
And I called for a drought upon the land, and upon the mountains,
and upon the corn, and upon the new wine, and upon the oil, and upon
that which the ground bringeth forth, and upon men, and upon cattle,
and upon all the labour of the hands.
According to that scripture God says, I will bring drought upon men, that
means everybody else around you can be prosperous yet somehow
promotion seems to elude you. You can be living in a first world country
were prosperity is abundant and yet your cousin in Tshabalala will be
living a better life than you are. You are in exactly the same place the
Israelites in the book of Haggai found themselves. The devil is banking on
your ignorance to keep you in poverty and will keep you in religious
ceremonies that don’t take you anywhere. Religion tells you that you have
done your part without ever awakening you to the what God really wants
of your life.
Above all things, God wants your heart to be on the things of his kingdom
this is exactly what the apostle Paul was encouraging the church at
Colosse;
Colossians 3: 2
Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth.
Now that is not to say that God wants you to neglect your daily needs after
all you still live here on earth but the key is what the children of Israel had
missed in Haggai which is to put the kingdom of God first. I know right
now some are thinking that that this is all old testament as I have already
mentioned in the book of Matthew the Lord Jesus himself taught on this
very subject.
Matthew 6: 33
But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
these things shall be added unto you.
The Lord was addressing his disciples on their concerns for their own
upkeep and here is how the Lord addressed the situation, the answer was
simple. Seek the kingdom of God FIRST and his righteousness and all
these things shall be added unto you. Notice it’s the kingdom of God
FIRST, then all these things shall be added unto you.
Seed time and harvest is a law that even those who are not in the kingdom
of God can take advantage of. I know you have never heard of that before
let me break it down. God makes it to rain on the just and the unjust. Both
can take advantage of the seasons of the year because God does not
withhold his sunshine from the wicked. It is so easy in life to get distracted
in “making a living” that you can become distracted and fail to make a
meaningful life with God.
God was telling them in that scripture that as long as you put the kingdom
of first in everything you do, the natural things you need will be added to
you. That means there is no sweating on your part, this is all God putting
you in the right place at the right time, giving you favour with people that
can open doors for you.
Kingdom prosperity is for kingdom addicts and you can change your life
today when start putting first things first. In the next chapter I am going to
deal with a very controversial subject and believe me this one was a
difficult one for me to swallow as the Lord was ministering to me in that
vision.
CHAPTER 4
 
WHY TITHING DOESN’T WORK
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
 
Right now, the biggest scripture that every believer stands on when it
comes to the provisions of God is found in the book of Malachi lets go
there.
Malachi 3: 10
Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in
mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I
will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing,
that there shall not be room enough to receive it.
The biggest problem we have with this scripture is the way that it is
interpreted in the church today. Not everyone who is tithing is
experiencing the open window of heaven kind of blessing and that’s a fact.
Right now, you are reading this and you have been tithing for the last six
years and still struggling to make ends meet. But hear me out first before
you send me to the gallows for messing with your theology. Am I saying
that you should not tithe? Emphatically no! But there is something that
many over-look here that I want you to see.
Non-tithing tithers
You need to understand the circumstance and context of what we have just
read in that passage of scripture. God was not saying here that the people
are cursed for non-tithing, because if you go back to the very first chapter
of Malachi you will find that God actually pointed out to them the fact that
they were offering the blind for sacrifice, the lame and the sick is what
they were bringing to the alter. So then it is not that people where no
longer bringing tithes and offerings to the temple this thing was actually
two fold, let me explain.
Malachi 1: 7- 8
Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar, and ye say, wherein have we
polluted thee? In that ye say, the table of the Lord is contemptible.
And if ye offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? And if you offer
the lame and the sick, is it not evil?
According to that scripture we just read these people were actually
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
bringing tithes and offerings to the house of God but they would bring the
lame, the sick and the polluted bread so that they can keep the best of what
they have for themselves. One thing about the people of God in that age is
that even though they would miss the mark in terms of moral conduct,
when it came to the ceremonial laws like tithing and feasts in the law of
Moses these were followed to the tee.
So the issue of tithing and offering is something they would have never
stopped doing because it was in their laws. It was a part of what it meant to
be an Israelite and belong to God as far as they were concerned. But the
question still remains that, if they were indeed tithing and giving offering
how then did we arrive at Malachi 3: 10 where God is saying,
“Ye have robbed in tithes and offerings?”
Stay with me as we dig a little bit deeper into the scriptures.
The nation of Israel had now gone into a religious mode were you are just
trying to tick boxes in the do’s and don’ts columns of God. Their hearts
were not in it for the kingdom of God and he knew it. In fact, when you
read Malachi 3: 10 he actually addresses that same issue, I know you just
missed it, let me break it down. Because their giving was now just a
religious thing they did to fulfil the commandments of God so they could
be blessed, to God it was as good as they had not given anything at all.
Like many today they were now tipping God and paying the world. They
reserved for themselves the very best of their livestock and crops bringing
the left overs as tithe and offering. Their hearts were not for the Kingdom
of God but they just wanted to use him like a genie to get what they
wanted. They were obsessed with the harvest and the hundredfold return
and the pouring out of a blessing like many believers are today. They were
not focusing on why tithing was implemented by God. Let’s go back to
that scripture in the book of Malachi;
Malachi 3: 10
Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in
mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I
will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing,
that there shall not be room enough to receive it.
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
I need you to follow this carefully, the scripture says, bring the tithe, so
that there may be meat in mine house. Now remember the book of
Malachi was written to the priesthood, and before you shout hallelujah it
doesn’t mean that you are exempt from following what it says, because in
the new testament we are a royal priesthood a Holy nation so everybody
who is saved is numbered with the priests now.
The fact that the book is written to the priesthood means that God
shouldn’t need to really hammer in the reason for bringing tithes and
offering. Surely this is something the priesthood should know. The only
problem is their motive for bringing the tithes and offering was no longer
the kingdom of God, they were now just looking after themselves and this
is exactly why they were now bringing to God the blind and the lame for
an offering. They were no longer mindful of what was needed in the house
and God was saying to them, bring the tithes and offerings, that there
may be meat in mine, in other words bring tithes and offering for this
reason not any other.
If you ask many believers today for their reason for tithing, for many it’s
because they fear that if they don’t it they may go to hell and some are just
afraid that if they don’t do it, things are just not going to work out for them
financially. I know I have many witnesses right now. So, they are not
bringing tithes for the kingdom of God they are just looking after
themselves and wondering why it is that they are not experiencing an open
heaven kind of blessing. This is why you find believers asking stupid
questions like, should I tithe from the gross or net? You are not doing it for
God, it’s for you, you are not mindful of what is needed in His kingdom.
Robbing God
If you back up a little bit to verse 8 you find that even God knew that what
he was about to tell them would confuse people, watch what the bible says;
Malachi 3: 8
Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say, wherein
have we robbed thee?
If they were not tithing and bringing offerings to God then that question
wouldn’t make any sense at all because they would just know that oh yes,
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
he is talking about the tithe and offering we are keeping for ourselves these
days. But they were asking God, what do you mean we have robbed you?
they were just as confused as you are as to why they were not prospering
yet they were seemingly observing every rule in the book.
Right now, in the church many attack those that preach the message that
God wants His people to prosper, because of this very reason some have
even changed and are now preaching a different message from the very
pits of hell that says poverty is humility. The children of Israel were in
exactly the same boat, their frustration had actually brought them to a
place where they were questioning the ability of God provide. I have even
heard people in the body of Christ say things like this tithing business
doesn’t work. Let me remind you as did the Lord the children of Israel in
the book of Malachi, you are questioning the very integrity of God and He
does not take that lightly.
Malachi 3: 13- 14
Your words have been stout against me, saith the Lord. Yet ye say,
what have we spoken so much against thee? Ye have said, it is vain to
serve God and what profit is it that we have kept his ordinance, and
that we have walked mournfully before the Lord of hosts?
Up until this point in their minds the children of Israel were doing
everything expected of them by God, but it seemed as if God was not
doing His part. When they would bring their tithes, and offering God
would look at it as an evil thing, and instead of the blessing they were
expecting a curse would follow them. They would go home pleased with
themselves thinking they have done God a good service, yet to the Lord it
was an evil thing in His sight and deserved to be punished. Let’s look at it
from the first book of Malachi.
An evil offering
Malachi 1: 8
And if ye offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? And if ye offer the
lame and sick, is it not evil? Offer it now unto thy governor; will he be
pleased with thee, or accept thy person? saith the Lord of hosts.
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
You can be paying your tithe and offering and because your heart has gone
away from the kingdom of God all you are doing is to look inward, it will
appear as evil thing before the Lord. This is exactly what happens when
you bring to the alter, the change you keep in your dash board during the
week just so that when the pastor calls for an offering, you also have
something to bring so the people can see that you brought your offering.
You are doing it for your audience to see you and not God, there can be no
blessing in that. It is an evil thing that you are doing and you can be
assured that God is not about to bless you, because you have not even
considered what is needed in His house.
Return unto me
You might be crying today about how much you tithe and how much you
have given yet all God can see is how much you have robbed him and evil
your offering is. It is time to once again put the focus on the kingdom of
God. We know according to the scripture that our God does not change He
is the same yesterday today and forever. Let your seed be for God’s
kingdom to expand. Cater for his needs and never give for God to give you
a blessing but be consumed with the needs of the kingdom and financially
meet them.
What he told the children of Israel to do back then will work for you as
well watch what the scripture says;
Malachi 3: 7- 10
Even from the days of your fathers ye are gone away from mine
ordinances, and have not kept them. Return unto me, and I will return
unto you, saith the Lord of hosts. But ye said, wherein shall we
return? Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say,
wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings.
Notice in that scripture God is saying return to me, and if they are
returning to God that means they are going back to a place they were in
before but departed from. When they lost sight of what God wanted and
were no longer mindful of the kingdom of God, spiritually they left the
place of prosperity and God was now saying to them that the only way
they could return was through their tithes and offering.
******ebook converter DEMO Watermarks*******
Notice at this time outwardly everything still looked the same. They were
in church every Sunday and when the offering basket would go around the
room they were participating. It was very difficult for them to realise that
they had left the place of prosperity in God and he needed to send Uebert
Angel, sorry Malachi to turn their hearts back to the kingdom of God and
restore their prosperity. When they would begin to sacrifice for the sake of
making provision in the house of God and not just to enrich themselves
then even God would rebuke the devourer that had ransacked their
finances.
According to that scripture we have just read the only way for them to
return to God was in correcting their relationship with money and putting
the things of the kingdom of God first before anything else. Their supply
was in the kingdom of God and he alone had the ability to rebuke the
devourer that had ravaged their finances.
 
The motive revelation
In conclusion, seeding doesn’t work. What works is the motive of your
seeding. God responds to the reason why you are giving and if that reason
has anything to do with you then you will definitely be wasting your
money but if your reason for standing up and going to the altar to give
your money is because you want the work of God financed then God is
really about to bless you. Being rich is easy, it is inside the reason why we
give, tithe or sow. So, if you change your motive and become a kingdom
addict that is ready to meet the needs of God’s house you will be like the
sparrows that do not sow or reap but are richly blessed by God and you
would have cracked the code to provoking the angels of money.
