RECREATING YOUR WORLD
Recreating your world means changing
the circumstances of your life; looking at your
surrounding conditions and changing them to
suit you; taking yourself from a particular level
of life to another.
In Acts 1:8 Jesus said, “But ye shall re-
ceive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come
upon you: and ye shall be witnesses unto me
both in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and in
Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the
earth.”
There are basically two Greek words
translated ‘power’ in the New Testament. The
first is ‘EXOUSIA’ this refers to delegated power
which is authority, that is, the right to act for
another. It is this word that is translated ‘power’
Chapter One
in Matthew 9:8: “But when the multitudes saw
it, they marvelled, and glorified God, which
had given such POWER (authority) unto men.”
It is also found in Matthew 28:18: “And
Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All
power (authority) is given unto me in heaven
and in earth.”
The other Greek word translated power is
‘DUNAMIS.’ This refers to inherent power; this
power is capable of reproducing itself and it is
from it we get the English word dynamo. A dy-
namo coverts mechanical energy into electrical
energy and this returns in cycle. In essence and
in the context in which Jesus used it, it is dy-
namic ability to cause changes. This is the Greek
word translated ‘power’ both in Luke 24:49:
“...but tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem,
until ye be endued with POWER (dynamic abil-
ity to cause changes) from on high.”
and in Acts 1:8:
“But ye shall receive power (dynamic abil-
ity to cause changes), after that the Holy Ghost
is come upon you...”
RECREATING YOUR WORLD
2
This is the reason you can recreate your
world.
When you received the Holy Ghost, you
also received dynamic ability to cause changes.
The Holy Ghost is not “Dunamis” but He gives
“Dunamis” -the dynamic ability to cause
changes.
If your world or sphere of contact does not
please you or if you don’t like the way things
are around you, YOU CAN CHANGE IT! In fact
nobody but you can change it.
In most parts of the world today, a lot of
people know the Bible and its message on a
number of subjects like prosperity, healing and
the Holy Spirit, but their problem lies with the
application of this knowledge in everyday life.
That is why you can see somebody who knows
all the scriptures on prosperity, not having a
single cent in his pocket. If you are born again,
such should not be the case because God has
made you a partaker of His divine nature. He
has put in you every quality and potential that
you will ever need in this world to become that
person that He has destined you to be.
Recreating Your world
3
The Holy Ghost is no longer in heaven.
On the day of Pentecost, He was sent down to
the earth. Jesus said in John 16:7:
“...It is expedient (profitable) for you that I go
away: for if I go not away, the Comforter will
not come unto you; but if I depart, I will send
him unto you.”
Some people are of the opinion that the
Holy Ghost is still in heaven or that He has re-
turned to heaven. But Acts 2:1-4 lets us know
otherwise:
“And when the day of Pentecost was fully
come, they were all with one accord in one
place. And suddenly there came a sound from
heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it
filled all the house where they were sitting.
And there appeared unto them cloven tongues
like as of fire, and it sat upon each of them.
And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost,
and began to speak with other tongues, as the
Spirit gave them utterance.”
The Holy Ghost came on the day of Pen-
tecost, NEVER to return for as long as we re-
main on the earth; for Jesus said in John
14:16:
RECREATING YOUR WORLD
4
“And I will pray the Father and he shall
give you another Comforter, that he may ABIDE
WITH YOU FOREVER.”
And He explained who this Comforter is
in verse 26: “But the Comforter, which is the
Holy Ghost...”
The Holy Ghost is the supplier of the
power needed for creation; at the creation of the
world, He was present. Now, when we received
the Holy Ghost, we received the dynamic ability
to cause changes.
It is so very vital for us to know that we
actually  have a choice in life. You don’t have to
stay with the status quo. In fact, it is actually
one of two things we find happening in our lives:
you are either changing the circumstances of
your life and your world or your world is chang-
ing you!
Recreating Your World
5
YOUR CREATIVE ABILITY
God has put in you His creative ability;
your imaginative power is your creative ability!
Of all the creatures of God, only man has cre-
ative ability. Dogs cannot imagine, goats can’t
and no other beast can. Angels don’t imagine.
Man is the only one that can imagine. God has
blessed you with the special gift of imaginative
power. This imaginative power is your creative
ability!
The Bible says in Genesis 1:1, “In the be-
ginning God created the heavens and the
earth.” Then it goes on to say, “And the earth
was without form, and void; and darkness
covered the face of the deep. And the Spirit
of God moved upon the face of the waters”
(verse 2).
Chapter Two
The best word to describe the situation of
the world at this time is CHAOTIC. The world
was a chaotic mass and God had to do some-
thing about it.
Your home may be in chaos today and
your thoughts may have brought you chaotic
conditions of life such that it’s as though there’s
no end to your troubles, which cause your heart
to seem to beat faster than normal. Here’s what
the Bible says about how God recreated the
world from a chaotic situation.
“And the earth was without form, and
void; and darkness was upon the face of the
deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the
face of the waters. And God said, Let there
be light: and there was light” (Genesis 1:2-
3).
The Hebrew word translated ‘moved’ is
‘RACHAPH’ which means ‘to brood,’ ‘to flutter.’
So we see that as the Spirit of God was moving
upon the face of the waters; God was brooding
and conceiving something.
God was incubating the beauty of light and
RECREATING YOUR WORLD
8
creation, brooding on what the earth would look
like. He desired that the earth be beautiful, that
there should be light in the earth and when He
had fully conceived it, God brought it forth with
His Word; He spoke the beauty of the earth into
being.
The Power of Positive Desire
In Genesis chapter one, God was operat-
ing on a spiritual principle which can be more
clearly seen in James 1:14-15.
“But every man is tempted, when he is
drawn away of his own lust, and enticed.
Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth
forth sin: and sin, when it is finished,
bringeth forth death.”
Sin is the product of lust, and lust actu-
ally means a strong, urgent, evil desire.
Though this scripture directly relates to a
negative desire, yet we find this principle does
not only work in the negative realm but also in
the positive.
When a man is tempted, his lust, that is,
the wrong desire tries to pull him away. Finally
Your Creative Ability
9
when he agrees with the wrong desire in his
mind, he is enticed. Initially a seed is sown when
the man is drawn away by his own lust. This
principle does not only work in the negative
realm, because good desire can also conceive.
And of course you should expect a better result
when good desire conceives.
Light is stronger than darkness, good is
better, greater and stronger than evil. So if evil
desire can conceive and bring forth, good desire
can conceive and bring forth its own kind. This
is exactly what God demonstrated in Genesis
1:2:
“And the earth was without form, and
void; and darkness was upon the face of the
deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the
face of the waters.”
 And in Genesis 1:11-12:
“And God said, Let the earth bring forth
grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree
yeilding fruit after his kind, whose seed is in
itself, upon the earth: and it was so. And earth
brought forth grass, and herb yielding seed
RECREATING YOUR WORLD
10
after his kind, and the tree yielding fruit,
whose seed was in itself, after his kind: and
God saw that it was good.”
This is another principle: everything
brings forth after its own kind. So you see, when
good desire conceives, it will naturally bring forth
good things, just as lust brings forth sin. It hap-
pens without being forced.
So when God had fully conceived what He
wanted the earth to be like, He spoke and it came
into being.
We know the story of Abraham. God had
promised Abraham that he would be great, and
that his seed would be great.
“And I will make thy seed as the dust of
the earth: so that if a man can number the
dust of the earth, then shall thy seed also be
numbered” (Genesis 13:16).
However, Abraham did not receive this
promise because he did not believe. He could not
fathom how an old man like himself could have
children; nor how an old woman like Sarah (Sarai
then) could bear children. However, in Genesis
Your Creative Ability
11
15:5, God awakened Abraham in the night and
took him outside of his tent: “And He (God)
brought him (Abraham) forth abroad, and said,
Look now toward heaven, and tell the stars, if
thou be able to number them: and He said unto
him, So shall thy seed be.”
“And he (Abraham) BELIEVED in the
LORD; and he (God) counted it to him for righ-
teousness” (Genesis 15:6).
God wanted to bless Abraham but He
needed Abraham’s imagination. Abraham, not
having any children and still living by the senses,
could not imagine that his seed would be as in-
numerable as the dust of the earth  as God had
said. So God had to appeal to his mind and to do
this He took him outside, showed him the stars
and told him to count them. This helped
Abraham’s vision.
As he looked into the stars, suddendly he
caught God’s idea; he began to see faces instead
of  those stars, he could see each one, and he
could imagine the faces of his children in those
stars and he tried counting, but he had to stop for
they were too many for him to count. Finally his
RECREATING YOUR WORLD
12
imagination caught it, and the Bible declares that
he believed God, after which God changed his
name from ‘Abram’ meaning ‘exalted Father’ to
‘Abraham’ which means ‘Father of many.’ You see,
God could not call him Abraham until he believed
Him and carried the vision of what He said inside
of him.
God also changed the name of his wife from
‘Sarai’ meaning ‘contentious’ to ‘Sarah’ meaning
‘Queen of Princes’ or ‘Mother of princes.’ God did
this so the picture He had established in
Abraham’s heart could be kept alive.
God’s principle was communicated to
Abraham and the Bible declares that ABRAHAM,
AGAINST HOPE BELIEVED IN HOPE that he might
become the Father of many nations and it hap-
pened.
“Who against hope believed in hope, that
he might become the father of many nations,
according to that which was spoken, So shall
thy seed be” (Romans 4:18).
Your Creative Ability
13
The Woman with the Issue of Blood
Mark 5:25-34, “And a certain woman,
which had an issue of blood twelve years, And
had suffered many things of many physicians,
and had spent ALL that she had, and was noth-
ing bettered, but rather grew worse,When she
had heard of Jesus, came in the press behind,
and touched his garment. For she said, If I
may touch but his clothes, I shall be whole.
And straightway the fountain of her blood was
dried up; and she felt in her body that she
was healed of that plague. And Jesus, imme-
diately knowing in himself that virtue had gone
out of him, turned him about in the press, and
said, Who touched my clothes? And His dis-
ciples said unto him, Thou seest the multitude
thronging thee, and sayest thou, Who touched
me? And he looked round about to see her that
had done this thing. But the woman fearing
and trembling, knowing what was done in her,
came and fell down before him, and told him
all the truth. And he said unto her, Daughter,
thy faith hath made thee whole; go in peace,
and be whole of thy plague.”
RECREATING YOUR WORLD
14
Here was a woman who had suffered from a
terrible hemorrhage (issue of blood) and no doc-
tor could help her, in spite of the amount of money
she had spent.
But when she heard of Jesus, she said, “If I
could only touch the hem of His garment, I would
be made whole” She kept painting this picture of
herself made whole in her mind and the desire to
be healed, which had been birthed in her contin-
ued to grow. With her imagination she created a
new picture of herself in her mind.
That day there were many people pressing
upon Jesus, very likely, many sick people, but
it’s only the record of this woman’s healing we
have in the Bible. Why? Because they did not have
the same desire she had; she had defined her
desire.
You see the Word of God works every time.
You can recreate your world for God has put in
you every quality that you need in this world to
be who He has determined you to be, but it de-
pends on you and what you want; what matters is
your desire.
Your Creative Ability
15
What do you want? What do you want your
world to look like? How do you want your home to
be? Begin to paint the picture in your mind and
brood over it. Let it fill your mind, and allow the
Holy Spirit aid you, by vitalizing your imagination
with declarations from God’s Word concerning
you. And soon, just like at the creation, you would
speak it into being.
When God created the world it was a result
of His desire and imaginative  power at work and
when He finished, He called it good.
Have a specific desire; have a clear picture
of what you want in your mind. Your desire will
create a strong driving force, which will cause you
to speak out and achieve your desired goals. Ev-
ery desire is possible; there is no impossible de-
sire, no impossible dream gets to this world.
A dream is a seed with enough life in it to
cause it to come to pass, no matter what the cir-
cumstances may be. Let your dream grow.
RECREATING YOUR WORLD
16
CREATING BY THE WORD
When you compare the account of creation
in Genesis chapter one with that in Genesis chap-
ter two, you would come to the conclusion that
after God had spoken creation into being, He went
ahead to make and form them.
After God had spoken to Abraham and
Abraham believed God, and he went on  calling
himself “Father of many” (Abraham) and calling
his wife “Mother of Princes’ (Sarah), even though
they had no children.
You can imagine the expression on the faces
of his neighbors and the servants in his house-
hold. I can just imagine them saying, “The old
duo are going crazy now, imagine childless Papa
Abram saying he is father of many and calling
old Sarai, Mother of princes... their religion has
Chapter Three
gotten into their heads.”
But eventually according to the World of God
and their continued declaration they had a child
- Isaac - and became the father and mother of
many.
When the Clouds Be Full of Rain...
Desire, when it has conceived brings forth,
it happens naturally without force.
Ecclesiastes 11:3:
“If the clouds be full of rain, they empty
themselves upon the earth...”
Water evaporates from the earth’s surface
and rises up to form vapor, which condenses and
finally comes back as rain. No one needs to go up
into the  sky to force the clouds to release the
rains. When  they are full they release naturally.
In Genesis 2:4-6,9 we read,
“These are the generations of the heav-
ens  and the earth when they were created,  in
the day that they LORD God made the earth
RECREATING YOUR WORLD
18
and the  heavens, (At this time God was speak-
ing  creation  into  being) And  every  plant of
the field before it was in the earth, and every
herb of the field before it grew: for the LORD
God had NOT CAUSED IT TO RAIN upon the
earth, and there was not a man to till the
ground. But there went up a mist from the
earth, and watered the whole face of the
ground... And  out  of  the ground made the
LORD  God  to  grow  every  tree that is pleas-
ant to the sight, and good for food...”
When God spoke the Word, it came into be-
ing in the spirit as a seed. Jesus said, “...the seed
is the Word” (Luke 8:11). But the seed has to
grow. And how does it grow? By the rains coming
down on it.
So after you have spoken the Word to
change your circumstances, after meditating by
the spirit, this ‘word-seed’ has to be watered in
order to grow.
You may say, “The rain falls when it wills’
but  that’s not true. The rain does not just fall;
the clouds have to be watered first. And you’re
the one to water those clouds. Yes, the Bible says,
Creating By The Word
19
“when the clouds be  full of  rain they empty them-
selves upon the earth” But you’re responsible for
‘watering your clouds.’
Isaiah 55: 10 - 11:
“For as the rain cometh down, and the snow
from heaven,  and  returneth  not  thither, but
watereth the earth, and maketh it bring forth
and bud, that it may give seed to the sower,
and bread to the eater: SO SHALL MY WORD
BE that goeth forth out of my mouth: it shall
not return unto me void, but it shall accom-
plish that which I please, and it shall prosper
in the thing whereto I sent it.”
You ‘water your clouds’ with the Word of
God. What  kind  of  situations  and  circumstances
do you want to prevail in your home? Begin to
speak them into being using the Word of God.
The Bible says, “There shall no evil befall thee,
neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwell-
ing” (Psalm 91:10).
Quit complaining and start ‘watering your
clouds.’ The situation may not change overnight,
but the Word would certainly prosper in that which
RECREATING YOUR WORLD
20
it has been sent.
For how long do you have to water your
clouds? For as long as it takes the clouds to be
full and to pour down as rain!
You don’t have to wait for the circumstances
to look okay before you speak. In fact it’s when
they’re not you should speak the more.
Ecclesiastes 11: 4, 6:
“He that observeth the wind shall not
sow; and he that regardeth the clouds shall
not reap... In the morning sow thy seed, and
in the evening withhold not thine hand: for
thou knowest not whether shall prosper, ei-
ther this or that, or whether they both shall
be alike good.”
So when things look okay and when they
don’t, at all times, water your clouds!
Some people constantly complain about
their businesses, their  jobs or their children. And
that’s because they’re ignorant of the fact that
they’re not only watering the wrong seeds, but
they’re also watering wrongly. Constant com-
Creating By The Word
21
plaints will bring about negative confessions,
which will eventually bring forth after their kind.
You can affect the future of your growing child.
You can destroy the peace and tranquility in your
home and marriage through your negative words.
I once read of a tradition of Jewish moth-
ers: That everyday as their children grew, they
would speak God’s blessings upon their lives and
confess His Word on them. The result was that
apart from causing these children to become more
confident as they grew up, the words actually fol-
lowed them and caused them to prosper.
So start sowing the right seeds and keep
watering them with your confessions and you will
surely reap the right fruits.
RECREATING YOUR WORLD
22
THE PRAYER OF
THE CREATIVE HUMAN SPIRIT
Prayer is important; it not only serves as
communication with God in terms of fellowship,
but it also affects your life in many other ways.
Prayer  can  shape  a man’s  future. It will deter-
mine the kind of things that will happen or will
not happen in a man’s life. This is why it’s impor-
tant to learn to pray effective prayers that achieve
results.
To get a clearer understanding of how this
can be achieved, reference will be made again to
the book of Genesis: the account of God’s cre-
ation.
Genesis 1:1-2:
“In the beginning God CREATED the
Chapter Four
heaven and the earth. And the earth was with-
out form, and void, and darkness was upon
the face of the deep. And the Spirit of  God
MOVED upon the face of the waters.”
The Amplified version says,
“In the beginning God (prepared, formed,
fashioned and) created the heavens and the
earth...The Spirit of God was moving (hover-
ing, brooding) over the face of  the waters”
(Genesis 1:1-2).
The words CREATED, MOVED and MADE
have distinct meanings that influence the com-
prehension of these scriptures.
‘MOVE’ originates from the Hebrew word
‘RACHAPH’ which means ‘to brood’ or ‘to flutter’.
Its particular implication, however, is ‘to relax.’
Therefore, when the Bible says the Spirit of God
moved upon the face of the water, the best syn-
onym for ‘move’ will be ‘brood.’  Brood means ‘to
sit over something so as to hatch’ or ‘to bring forth’.
If God was sitting over the earth, it means He was
brooding and if He was brooding, that means He
was relaxed.
RECREATING YOUR WORLD
24
Since ‘MOVED’ imply being relaxed, that
tells you that the Spirit of God had a plan He was
brooding over so as to bring forth something.  At
that  time, there was  darkness everywhere; the
world was a chaotic mass.
Isaiah 24:1:
“Behold, the LORD maketh the earth
empty, and maketh it waste, and turneth it
upside down, and scattereth abroad the inhab-
itants thereof.”
Jeremiah 4:23-26 confirms the situation of
the earth at that time.
“I beheld the earth, and lo, it was with-
out form, and void; and the heavens, and they
had no light. I beheld the mountains, and, lo,
they trembled, and all the hills moved lightly.
I beheld, and, lo, there was no man, and all
the birds of the heavens were fled. I beheld,
and, lo, the fruitful place was a wilderness,
and all the cities thereof were broken down at
the presence of the LORD, and by his fierce
anger.”
However, God was settled. He had some-
The Prayer of The Creative Human Spirit
25
thing  on  His  mind  that  He was settled about;
His mind was fixed on something that he
wanted. Though the earth was in disarray, He
was neither double-minded nor unstable. The
Spirit of God began to brood over the earth so as
to effect a change.
Genesis 1: 21, 25:
“And God CREATED great whales, and
every living creature that moveth, which the
waters brought forth abundantly... And God
MADE the beast of the earth after his kind,
and cattle after their kind, and everything that
creepeth...”
The words ‘CREATED’ and ‘MADE’ are used
here but they both have distinct meanings. CRE-
ATE is derived from the Hebrew word ‘BARA’ which
means ‘to bring into being.’ In other words, all
the things God created did not exist before that
time; He brought them into being.
‘MADE’ on the other hand, is derived from
the Hebrew word ‘ASAH’ which means ‘to make
out of previously existing materials.’
The two materials that were available to God
RECREATING YOUR WORLD
26
were water and earth (the ground). All He made
was brought forth from the waters and the earth.
Genesis 1:26:
“And God said, Let us MAKE man in our
image, after our likeness...”
‘MAKE’ here is referring to shaping, fash-
ioning, making from previously existing materi-
als. It was God’s suggestion to make man, so in
verse 27 the Bible tells us, “So God CREATED
man in his own image, in the image of God cre-
ated he him; male and female created he them.”
In Genesis 2:7 we see that God FORMED
man from the dust of the ground. He did not CRE-
ATE man from dust, He did not bring man into
being from the dust. Rather, God created man in
His own image. It was after bringing man into be-
ing that He formed man out of dust. God was there-
fore able to rest from all His work which He cre-
ated and made as indicated in Genesis 2:3.
Genesis 1:11, “And God said, Let the earth
bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed...and
it was so.”
Looking at this scripture, you will think God
The Prayer of The Creative Human Spirit
27
just said bring forth and the vegetation came forth.
However, before He spoke, He had been incubat-
ing deeply, brooding over these things and medi-
tating on them. It was only after meditating that
He spoke and it was so.
Even when God spoke, the plants and trees did
not just spring out of the ground because Gen-
esis 2:4-5 states:
“...When the LORD God made  the earth
and the heavens - and no shrub of the field
had yet appeared on the earth and no plant
of the field had yet sprung up, for the LORD
God had not sent rain on the earth and there
was no man to work the ground.” (NIV).
God had not caused it to rain so the plants
could not grow. Nothing appeared on the earth
because there was neither rain nor a man to till
the ground. The only thing that could have been
there would have been a seed. Genesis 1:11 con-
firms that God said the earth should bring forth
grass and fruit trees and it was so, yet in the above
scripture, you discover that rain was needed for
these plants to spring up.
RECREATING YOUR WORLD
28
Every time God said ‘Let there be’ He was
speaking, creating, bringing into being. the Bible
testifies to this in Hebrews 11:3.
“Through faith we understand that the
worlds were framed by the word of God, so
that things which are seen were not made of
things which do appear.”
God had been meditating, brooding over the
earth. It was only after this that He spoke ‘words
of faith’ that brought all creation into existence. it
all became a reality, for the Bible tells us that  He
saw that they were good.
While God was creating all things, they were
not physically tangible but He created them with
words. He spoke to the materials that were avail-
able to Him. What materials are available to you?
What do you have with you?
Don’t say you don’t have anything. You just
may not have observed what you have. When God
spoke to Moses at the burning bush, He asked
him, “What do you have in your hand?”
Moses could have said “Nothing” but he an-
swered, “a rod.” This previously seemingly unim-
The Prayer of The Creative Human Spirit
29
portant rod became “the rod of God” that Moses
used in performing miracles.
God had the waters and the earth. He be-
gan to brood over the whole earth and finally,
when His faith was fully mature, He spoke. When
He spoke, the things did not seem to appear physi-
cally but they appeared to Him in the spirit - world.
He then took steps to put in place all He had said.
Creation is done in your spirit. As the Word
is spoken, it transforms your imagination into re-
ality. Reality does not mean tangible, rather it
means truth. It exists and it’s there whether or
not you can touch it.
Prayer Gives Birth To Ideas
Prayer is important. If you really want to
bring God into your situation, you have to pray.
When you  pray, something happens to you. Many
people don’t know how and why they should pray.
Every time you want an idea, you’ll get it on
your knees in prayer. It’s that time your spiritual
eyes are open and you begin to see. Then, God
RECREATING YOUR WORLD
30
can communicate with you through your creative
spirit and something will come through. God  will
always give an idea. This is the key to all the things
you want. So an idea from God is all you really
need. With that idea, you can be, with that idea,
you can get and with that idea you can have.
You must therefore, spend time in prayer
until the visions come to your spirit. You must
continue to brood over those dreams, brood over
those desires until you can speak the Word that
will bring them to pass. When you speak the Word
upon that vision you received in your spirit, it be-
comes a reality but only in the spirit world. It is
the ideas that come to you while you are praying
that  will  bring your  vision into the  material
world. If you meditate upon these ideas long
enough, till you are fully persuaded and they be-
come real to you, your dreams will materialize.
But you don’t stop here. You have to go be-
yond praying and catching an  idea. The idea must
fill your thoughts and affect your confessions. The
idea must be so strong in you that it becomes real
to you. You must pray about these things often so
you can visualize yourself in that desired position
The Prayer of The Creative Human Spirit
31
and begin to act like you are  there. You have to
spend  more  time  in  prayer to bring you ideas to
materialization. Jesus Christ spent time praying,
and every time He came down from the moun-
tain, tremendous miracles were wrought.
Do you want to achieve your goals? Then
make up your  mind! Through prayer, you can
effectively change your life. You can get what you
want.Spend  time  in prayer, don’t  wander around
looking for somebody that will tell you what to do
and how to do it. You are a child of God so spend
time to pray and God will tell  you what to do; He
will give you an idea. No matter what you are go-
ing through in life, take time to pray.
What is that thing you are praying about?
What is that thing you want God to do for you?
First of all, think about it. Set your mind on it
then get on your knees to pray. Things do not
just happen; you’ve got to make a deliberate move.
Set it in your imagination, then commit it to God.
Ask God what you should do. Pray about it
in the spirit then talk about it. By praying in the
spirit, you are charging your own spirit and pre-
paring yourself to get aligned with God’s thoughts.
RECREATING YOUR WORLD
32
At a particular point in time, the visions will come
to you. While you are praying, it is possible that
God will bring the visions to your spirit. He will
begin to speak to you even when you are still
speaking to Him.
This was how I got my first office: I had de-
cided what kind of office I wanted for the things
we would be doing. For days I lived in this dream,
I began to speak it; it was so real to me. One day,
driving through town, I noticed a building with
the sign ‘To Let.’ I took a look, and it fit my pic-
ture perfectly. But (here was the problem) I had
no money. Before I knew what I was really doing,
like a big shot, I had walked up to the house and
told the agent I would pay in two weeks. But the
money was not there then. However, within the
stipulated time, through unexpected sources, the
money came miraculously and the office was paid
for. But it all started when I had it in my imagina-
tion.
Make up your mind not to waste your time.
Don’t be a drifter in life. The future is here and it
belongs to you. Whatever you want to do will work.
As long as you set your heart upon it, it will hap-
The Prayer of The Creative Human Spirit
33
pen. Your dreams must come true. You must have
a testimony in your mouth and a song on your
lips because God has done for you what you
wanted Him to do.
RECREATING YOUR WORLD
