THE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD 

THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD
THE SPIRIT OF WISDOM
THE SPIRIT OF UNDERSTANDING
THE SPIRIT OF COUNSEL
THE SPIRIT OF MIGHT
THE SPIRIT OF KNOWLEDGE
THE SPIRIT OF THE FEAR OF THE LORD
THE FULLNESS OF THE SPIRIT
Introduction
When you hear or read the title, “The
Seven Spirits of God” for the first time, the first
question that will likely come up in your mind is,
Does this mean God has seven Holy Spirits?
The Bible does show that there are “Seven
Spirits of God.” It however behooves us to
understand exactly what this means and how it
applies to us in the New Covenant.
To start with, the number Seven (7) is regarded
by the Hebrew people as a sacred number, and
throughout the Bible it is used to symbolize
perfection, fullness, abundance, rest, and
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
8
completion. The “Seven Spirits of God” therefore
implies a “completeness” or “fullness” of the Holy
Spirit, and this fullness of the Spirit is what every
Christian ought to have, for it is our birthright.
One time, a highly-revered minister (whom I
also hold in very high regard) said something
many believers have accepted: that only Jesus
didn’t have the Holy Spirit by measure, but every
one of us born again, Spirit-filled believers has the
Spirit by measure.
Well, I don’t buy that because it’s not in the
Bible! The reason many Christians have accepted
this is that they don’t understand the
manifestations and capabilities of the Holy Spirit.
They figure that the only way He can spread
Himself throughout the whole world is to be in
Jesus fully and in each of us in smaller measures.
The truth, however, is that when you were born
again and you received the Holy Ghost, you didn’t
receive Him in a measure; you received all of Him!
    
    
    
    
    q INTRODUCTION q
9
THE SPIRIT WITHOUT MEASURE
 When the Spirit of God came upon Moses,
Samson, Samuel, David, Isaiah and all of God’s
prophets, priests, judges, and kings of old, they
received the anointing in a measure. But the Bible
says of Jesus, “For he whom God hath sent
speaketh the words of God: for God giveth not the
Spirit by measure unto him” (John 3:34). Jesus was
the first who didn’t have the Spirit of God (or the
anointing) by measure but in His fullness.
This same Jesus, Who had the fullness of God’s
Spirit, said to His disciples just before He ascended
into heaven, “...as my Father hath sent me, even so
send I you” (John 20:21). Now think about it: If
Jesus required the full measure of the Spirit to do
the work the Father sent Him, and He has sent us
the same way He was sent of the Father, why then
should we be sent with a measure and not the
fullness of the Spirit?
Moreover, Jesus said in John 14:12, “Truly,
truly, I say to you, he who believes in Me, the works
10
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
that I do, he will do also; and greater {works} than
these he will do; because I go to the Father” (NASB).
How shall we do the same works that Jesus
did, and even greater works, if all we have is a
measure of the Spirit He had while He was here
on earth?
But thank God, we are joint-heirs with Christ
Jesus (Romans 8:17). That means we have the same
anointing that Jesus had. The whole Holy Ghost,
not a part or a measure of Him, is in us, praise
God! Through this book, I seek not only to stir in
you a strong desire for this fullness of the Spirit,
but also to impart to you the revelation knowledge
you require to activate it in your life.
It’s my strong belief and sincere prayer that
through the teachings and revelations that will
come to your spirit as you read this book, you’ll
discover a new and deeper dimension of the Holy
Ghost. You’ll be able to operate in His fullness
always, and you’ll walk in the miraculous and the
supernatural consistently.
THE SEVEN
THE SEVEN
THE SEVEN
THE SEVEN
THE SEVEN
 SPIRITS
 SPIRITS
 SPIRITS
 SPIRITS
 SPIRITS
1
A
   nd there shall come forth a rod out of
the stem of Jesse, and a Branch shall grow
out of his roots: And the spirit of the Lord
shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom
and understanding, the spirit of counsel
and might, the spirit of knowledge and of
the fear of the Lord; And shall make him
of quick understanding in the fear of the
Lord: and he shall not judge after the sight
of his eyes, neither reprove after the
hearing of his ears: But with righteousness
shall he judge the poor, and reprove with
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
14
equity for the meek of the earth...”
  (Isaiah 11:1-4).
Jesus is the Rod that Isaiah prophesied would
come from the stem of Jesse. Jesse was the father
of David, and Jesus described Himself as the root
and the offspring of David (Revelations 22:16).
That’s because He’s the Root from which David
came forth, but He also came to earth physically
from David’s lineage as his offspring. That’s why
He was severally addressed in the synoptic gospels
as the Son of David.
Isaiah prophesied concerning Him and said
when He comes, He would be so full of the Holy
Ghost, Who would make Him of quick
understanding in the fear of the Lord. As a result,
He would not judge according to His sight, neither
would He reprove after the hearing of His ears,
but would judge the poor and the meek with
righteousness and equity (Isaiah 11:3-4).
However, what I really want you to observe is
the description Isaiah gives of the Spirit upon Jesus:
q THE SEVEN SPIRITS q
15
“And the spirit of the Lord shall rest
upon him, the spirit of wisdom and
understanding, the spirit of counsel and
might, the spirit of knowledge and of the
fear of the Lord;”
    (Isaiah 11:2).
This is teaching us something special about
the Holy Ghost. If you speed-read through this
portion of Scripture without studying it carefully,
you won’t understand it. But by revelation, you
can see God showing us through this and several
other Scriptures that there are indeed seven Spirits
of God.
The Scriptures, in several places, speak of the
Spirit as the seven eyes, the seven Spirits, or the
seven lamps. These we would see shortly.
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
16
   SEVEN INDEPENDENT
MANIFESTATIONS OF THE SPIRIT
In Isaiah 11:2, seven distinct ‘Spirits’ are
mentioned. These are:
The Spirit of the Lord
The Spirit of Wisdom
The Spirit of Understanding
The Spirit of Counsel
The Spirit of Might
The Spirit of Knowledge
The Spirit of the Fear of the Lord
 All of these seven Spirits are really one Holy
Spirit in different manifestations. The same term,
“seven Spirits” is also used to portray Him in
Revelation 1:4, Revelation 4:5, and Revelation 5:6.
Revelation 1:4:
“John to the seven churches which are in
Asia: Grace be unto you, and peace, from
him which is, and which was, and which
is to come; and from the seven Spirits
which are before his throne;”
q THE SEVEN SPIRITS q
17
Revelation 4:5:
“And out of the throne proceeded
lightnings and thunderings and voices:
and there were seven lamps of fire burning
before the throne, which are the seven
Spirits of God.”
Revelation 5:6:
“And I beheld, and, lo, in the midst of
the throne and of the four beasts, and in
the midst of the elders, stood a Lamb as
it had been slain, having seven horns and
seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of
God sent forth into all the earth.”
The seven Spirits of God refer to seven
independent manifestations of the Holy Spirit. This
is, however, not the same as when we say the
Godhead is made up of three Persons. The Trinity
is a different phenomenon altogether. Each
member of the Godhead—Father, Son, and Holy
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
18
Spirit—is a distinct personality with peculiar
characteristics and attributes.
In the seven Spirits of God, we’re dealing with
one Person (the Holy Spirit) and the seven ways
in which He operates and manifests Himself. We’re
talking about “the sevenfold Holy Spirit of God.”
You’ll find this term in The Amplified Bible
translation of Revelation 1:4:
“John to the seven assemblies (churches)
that are in Asia: May grace (God’s
unmerited favor) be granted to you and
spiritual peace (the peace of Christ’s
kingdom) from Him Who is and Who was
and Who is to come, and from the seven
Spirits [the sevenfold Holy Spirit] before
His throne,”
This verse is quite striking. It’s not talking about
seven separate personalities, but seven separate
and independent manifestations of the Holy Spirit
in the life of the believer, which is indicative of
the fullness of the Spirit.
q THE SEVEN SPIRITS q
19
Isaiah’s prophetic words about these seven
Spirits of God may not be immediately understood
until you read other portions of the Bible.
Zechariah, another Old Testament prophet, helps
shed more light on “the seven Spirits.”
“For behold the stone that I have laid
before Joshua; upon one stone shall be
seven eyes: behold, I will engrave the
graving thereof, saith the Lord of hosts,
and I will remove the iniquity of that land
in one day”
(Zechariah 3:9).
Keep in mind what Zechariah says here that
“Upon one stone shall be seven eyes.”
Zechariah 4:10:
“For who hath despised the day of small
things? for they shall rejoice, and shall see
the plummet in the hand of Zerubbabel
with those seven; they are the eyes of the
Lord, which run to and fro through the
whole earth.”
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
20
He said upon one stone shall be seven eyes.
Here, in verse 10 of chapter 4, Zechariah refers to
those seven eyes upon one stone as the eyes of
the Lord, which run to and fro throughout the
whole earth.
Revelation 5:6:
“And I beheld, and, lo, in the midst of
the throne and of the four beasts, and in
the midst of the elders, stood a Lamb as
it had been slain, having seven horns and
seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of
God sent forth into all the earth.”
All three portions of Scripture quoted above
speak of one thing—the seven Spirits of God, or
put otherwise, the sevenfold Holy Ghost and His
operations.
Revelation 1:4 and Revelation 4:5 tell us more
about this:
“John, to the seven churches which are
in Asia: Grace to you and peace from Him
who is and who was and who is to come,
q THE SEVEN SPIRITS q
21
and from the seven Spirits who are before
His throne…”
“And out of the throne proceeded
lightnings and thunderings and voices:
and there were seven lamps of fire burning
before the throne, which are the seven
Spirits of God.”
There it is again: “The seven Spirits.”
Remember that Zechariah prophesied that upon
one stone shall be seven eyes. The Stone he was
talking about was the same one he referred to as
the Branch in Zechariah 3:8 and Zechariah 6:12.
Isaiah also called Him the Branch (Isaiah 11:1).
This means the Branch is the same One called the
Stone, which is the Christ.
Over in the New Testament, Peter calls Him
“the Living Stone” and “the Chief Cornerstone.”
1 Peter 2:3-6:
“If so be ye have tasted that the Lord is
gracious. To whom coming, as unto a
living stone, disallowed indeed of men,
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
22
but chosen of God, and precious, Ye also,
as lively stones, are built up a spiritual
house, an holy priesthood, to offer up
spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God by
Jesus Christ. Wherefore also it is contained
in the scripture, Behold, I lay in Sion a
chief corner stone, elect, precious: and
he that believeth on him shall not be
confounded.”
Jesus is the Stone, and we also are living stones
formed from and fashioned after Him. Observe
again what Zechariah said: “Upon one stone shall
be seven eyes.” Notice he didn’t say, “Upon the
stone” but “upon one stone,” meaning there are
other stones, and upon each of the stones will be
seven eyes.
Peter also said He (Jesus) is the Chief
Cornerstone and we also are living stones. Each
of us in His presence is a stone.
Again, remember that He is called the Branch,
and He said, “I am the Vine, and ye are the
branches.” That’s talking about us. We’re the
q THE SEVEN SPIRITS q
23
branches of the Branch; we’re living stones and
upon each of us should be seven eyes, which are
the seven Spirits of God.
WHY THE SEVEN SPIRITS?
When the Bible talks about the Holy Ghost
as the seven Spirits of God, what it implies is the
fullness of the Spirit, which you may or may not
have in your life.
In Ephesians 5:18, Paul charges us, “Be not
drunk with wine wherein is excess but be filled
with the Spirit.” The mere fact that he instructs us
to be filled with the Spirit presupposes that we’re
not always filled with the Spirit. If we were, he
would have said, “For ye are filled with the Spirit.”
When the Holy Ghost comes to live in you,
He’ll always be in you. Jesus said He’ll abide with
you forever (John 14:16), but that’s not to say
you’ll always have His fullness. When you have
less than the seven Spirits of God manifested in
you, it means you don’t have the fullness of the
Spirit. However, God wants us always to be filled
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
24
with the Spirit. He wants us to have the fullness of
the Spirit in us, and we can, because it belongs to
us!
John 3:34 tells us Jesus received the Spirit
without measure, which means all seven Spirits of
God dwelt in Him. He had the fullness of the
Godhead dwelling in Him bodily, and Paul lets us
know we are complete in Him Who is the Head of
all principality and power (Colossians 2:9-10).
Thus, every child of God ought to have the
fullness of the Spirit. None of us should have the
Spirit with measure. When Paul charged us to “be
filled with the Spirit,” he was talking about this
completeness or fullness of the Spirit.
Revelation 5:6 declares that all seven Spirits
of God have been sent forth into all the earth. This
means every Christian who has received the Holy
Spirit actually has these seven Spirits of God
dwelling in him, more so because Zechariah
prophesied that upon each stone shall be seven
eyes and these seven eyes are the seven Spirits of
God.
q THE SEVEN SPIRITS q
25
However, to receive the Spirit, and to have
Him fully manifested in your life are two different
things altogether. It’s great to know that we can
have these seven Spirits, but more importantly, we
need to know what they do for us and how to walk
in them. That’s because until the Lord manifests
Himself in your life fully through these seven
Spirits, you’ll never enjoy the best of Christianity,
which is the life of the supernatural and the
miraculous.
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE LORD
THE LORD
THE LORD
THE LORD
THE LORD
2
A
      nd the spirit of the Lord shall rest
upon him…”
  (Isaiah 11:2).
The first of the seven Spirits mentioned by the
prophet Isaiah is the Spirit of the Lord. This is also
known as the Spirit of Lordship or the Spirit of
dominion.
THE ONE WHO “COMES UPON”
Many Christians know little or nothing about
this Spirit. He’s the One Who always “rests upon”
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
28
or “comes upon.” He’s the One Who anoints you
with power for service. Every time you find Him
described in both the Old and New Testaments,
He always “comes upon.”
The Spirit of the Lord gives you boldness and
the sense of dominion. He puts you in charge of
situations. This was what the prophets of old
needed whenever they stood to declare God’s
Word before kings whom they would ordinarily
have been afraid of. Whenever they needed
boldness to dominate their circumstances or to
speak God’s Word without fear or timidity, the
Spirit of the Lord came upon them and empowered
them.
Often, you’ll read concerning the prophets,
“And the Spirit of the Lord was upon him.” That
was the Spirit of Lordship in operation. He took
charge and the one before whom they stood could
do nothing against them.
He’s the reason Elijah could go around looking
for the notoriously wicked King Ahab to deliver
God’s message of judgment to him. Ahab, on
q THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD q
29
seeing Elijah, exclaimed, “Have you found me, oh
my enemy!”(1 Kings 21:20), and Elijah replied,
“Yes, I’ve found you, for you are the enemy of
Israel. You have sold yourself to work evil in the
sight of the Lord!” (1 Kings 21:20). Elijah could
speak with such boldness because he was inspired
by the Spirit of the Lord.
When God called Moses and sent him to
Pharaoh with the message: “Let my people go!”
he didn’t think he could do it, and he started giving
God excuses. But God’s grace prevailed and the
Spirit of the Lord came upon him. It wasn’t the
signs God showed Moses that gave him boldness
to go before Pharaoh as much as the Spirit of the
Lord that came upon him.
When he got to Pharaoh’s palace, he said,
“Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, Let My people
go!”
Pharaoh sneered, “Who is your God?” But
that was the worst he could do. He couldn’t order
Moses’ summary execution, which normally
would have been his immediate response to such
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
30
effrontery. Moses was moved to challenge him by
the Spirit of the Lord.
When Joshua was about to take over the reins
of leadership of Israel from Moses, it was the Spirit
of the Lord Who assured him and said, “No one
will be able to oppose you as long as you live, for I
will be with you just as I was with Moses; I will not
abandon you or fail to help you” (Joshua 1:5 TLB).
He also told him, “Have I not commanded
you? Be strong and of good courage; do not be
afraid, nor be dismayed, for the LORD your God is
with you wherever you go” (Joshua 1:9 NKJV).
He said to Paul, “Don’t be afraid! Speak out!
Don’t quit! For I am with you and no one can harm
you. Many people here in this city belong to me”
(Acts 18:9-10 TLB). This emboldened Paul and he
“…stayed there the next year and a half, teaching
the truths of God” (Acts 18:11).
In the Old Testament, the Spirit of the Lord
came upon a young prophet named Azariah, and
he prophesied God’s Word to the king and the
entire nation:
q THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD q
31
“And the Spirit of God came upon Azariah
the son of Oded: And he went out to meet
Asa, and said unto him, Hear ye me, Asa,
and all Judah and Benjamin; The Lord is
with you, while ye be with him; and if ye
seek him, he will be found of you; but if
ye forsake him, he will forsake you”
    (2 Chronicles 15:1-2).
Azariah and many other prophets stood
before kings and rulers and spoke boldly to
them because the Spirit of the Lord came upon
them. In the New Covenant, Paul tells us “God
hath not given us the spirit of fear (or timidity);
but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind”
(2 Timothy 1:7).
If you’ve received the Holy Spirit to live in
you, you’re no longer ordinary. You have the
boldness of God in you to do anything that is
consistent with His will. That’s what we’ve got,
but many of us haven’t understood or taken
advantage of this, because we haven’t really
walked with the Spirit of the Lord as we should.
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
32
THE OPERATIONS OF THE SPIRIT OF
THE LORD
There’s a special anointing the Spirit of the
Lord brings with Him. We see this anointing in
operation when He visits prophet Ezekiel:
“…This was the appearance of the likeness
of the glory of the LORD. And when I saw
it, I fell upon my face, and I heard a voice
of one that spake”
   (Ezekiel 1:28).
Ezekiel saw the glory of the Lord and he fell
flat on his face, completely overwhelmed by His
awesome presence. Now watch what happens
next:
“And he said unto me, Son of man, stand
upon thy feet, and I will speak unto thee.
And the spirit entered into me when he
spake unto me, and set me upon my feet,
that I heard him that spake unto me”
(Ezekiel 2:1-2).
q THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD q
33
The Lord said, “Get up on your feet, I want to
talk to you,” and Ezekiel recounted that when He
said that, the Spirit entered him and set him on
his feet.
This is a special operation of the Spirit of the
Lord. He wasn’t with Ezekiel before this time, but
when He came, He entered him from the outside
and set him upon his feet. He does that for us from
time to time.
Have you ever been in a state where you
thought you were just too weak and tired to pray?
Still you made an attempt to mumble a few words
of prayer: “Father, I thank You for this day. Thank
You in Jesus’ Name…” and you spoke in tongues a
little. Then you heard the Spirit say, “Get up and
pray!” It sounded rather authoritative, but you
thought to yourself, “God understands I’m really
tired,” and continued mumbling weakly in
tongues. But the next thing you knew, you were
wide awake, pacing the floor, speaking so
powerfully in other tongues, and you didn’t have
a clue how it happened.
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
34
That was the Spirit of the Lord at work. He
entered you and set you upon your feet, just as
He did Ezekiel!
You see, it’s because we don’t recognize these
operations of the Spirit and feel we’re the ones
doing them by ourselves that the Spirit of God
doesn’t do much more in our lives. All the time,
we give ourselves the credit and say, “I was very
tired when I started praying, but suddenly I just
felt like getting up to pray and I got up and started
praying.” We fail to acknowledge the Spirit.
Ezekiel was smarter than that. He knew he
couldn’t have gotten up by himself because he
was knocked flat out. He recognized it was the
Spirit of the Lord Who entered him and set him
upon his feet and made him alert so he could hear
the words of the Lord. Glory to God!
In chapter 3 and verse 12, Ezekiel said,
“Then the spirit took me up, and I heard behind
me a voice of a great rushing, saying, Blessed be
the glory of the Lord from his place.” But notice
that it wasn’t mentioned anywhere before this
q THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD q
35
that the Spirit went out of him after He entered
him in Ezekiel 2:2. He hadn’t gone out of him,
yet He took him up again in Ezekiel 3:12.
There’s another interesting operation of the
Spirit in verse 14:
“So the spirit lifted me up, and took me
away, and I went in bitterness, in the heat
of my spirit; but the hand of the Lord was
strong upon me”
   (Ezekiel 3:14).
Ezekiel said the Spirit lifted him up and took
him away. That’s got to be an outside force! The
same Spirit of the Lord that entered into Ezekiel
was still ministering to him from the outside.
A similar event is recorded in the New
Testament in Acts 8:39:
“And when they were come up out of the
water, the Spirit of the Lord caught away
Philip, that the eunuch saw him no more:
and he went on his way rejoicing.”
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
36
Every time you find the rendering “the Spirit
of the Lord” in the New Testament, pay close
attention to it. It didn’t just say here that “the Spirit
caught away Philip,” but “the Spirit of the Lord
caught away Philip.” Remember, Philip was born
again and had the Holy Ghost in him. But this was
another function of the Holy Spirit coming from
outside him.
“The Spirit of the Lord caught away Philip…”
That had to have happened from the outside. He
carried Philip away physically and took him
somewhere else (Acts 8:40). Now, that’s some
power! And that’s the Spirit the Lord was talking
about when He said, “Ye shall receive power, after
that the Holy Ghost is come upon you...” (Acts1:8).
   THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD
EMPOWERS YOU
Jesus told His disciples, “ye shall receive
power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you:
and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in
Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and in Samaria, and
37
q THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD q
unto the uttermost part of the earth” (Acts 1:8). But
before this time, He had told them to wait in the
city of Jerusalem until they were endued with
power from on high (Luke 24:49).
On the day of Pentecost, when the Holy Ghost
came upon them, they received and were endued
(clothed) with supernatural power to preach and
teach the Word of God. When that happened,
they went out and began to speak, knowing that
the Holy Spirit would impregnate their words with
power to save those who heard them.
Peter knew that power had come. That was
why he could tell the man at the Beautiful Gate,
“Silver and gold have I none; but such as I have
give I thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth
rise up and walk” (Acts 3:6), and when the man
didn’t respond, he grabbed him by the hand and
lifted him up. Then his ankle bones received
strength and he began to walk. Peter knew he had
power; he knew the Spirit of the Lord was upon
him.
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
38
Let me remind you that the same Spirit that
was upon Jesus, the Chief Cornerstone, is upon
each one of us living stones. Jesus said in Luke
4:18-19,
“The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because
he hath anointed me to preach the gospel
to the poor; he hath sent me to heal the
brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to
the captives, and recovering of sight to
the blind, to set at liberty them that are
bruised, To preach the acceptable year of
the Lord.”
Did you catch the point of this? It means
that when the Spirit of the Lord comes upon you,
He anoints you to tell the good news. And when
you tell it, it doesn’t come to your hearers as
mere words but with the divine power and
ability to give life.
q THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD q
39
GET SOME POWER!
Some Christians only know to read their
Bibles, teach, preach, sing, pray, and go their way.
They’re in the “meek and quiet” camp. Child of
God, there’s more to your life than that. You’ve
got to have some power in your life! The Bible says
the Kingdom of God is not in Word only, but in
power also (1 Corinthians 4:20).
There’s nothing as uninspiring as a Christian
who preaches power without demonstrating it.
Paul said, “I didn’t come with words of man’s
wisdom, but in the demonstration of the Spirit and
of power; that your faith shouldn’t stand in the
wisdom of men but in the power of God” (1
Corinthians 2:4). Therefore, get some power; get
to know the Spirit of the Lord!
Many times before I minister, I wait for the
anointing of the Spirit of the Lord to come on me.
When it does, I know more than anybody else that
something has happened. Sometimes, when I’m
praying alone, I can tell like Ezekiel, that the Spirit
of the Lord just entered me. It feels as if His hands
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
40
and legs have just gone into mine. I can tell it’s
not just me moving anymore, but “Someone”
moving in me. I can tell that He wants to lay hands
through me and do mighty things through me.
Glory to God!
THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD DEALS
WITH THE STORM
I was preaching at a crusade sometime in
1985, and that was one of the first times I began
to observe this manifestation of the Spirit. A strong
wind began to blow and it looked like the heavens
were about to come down. The place was sandy,
so the wind raised so much dust and sand and
brought it against the people.
I was grieved in my spirit all the time this was
happening. You know, sometimes you can be
grieved in your spirit about something but you
can’t do anything about it yet, because you don’t
want to do something dumb. I kept thinking to
myself, What’s going on? What am I going to do
about this?
41
q THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD q
Some people were trying to shield themselves
from the billowing dust. Others started going away
because it was so cloudy. It was obvious there was
going to be a heavy downpour. By this time my
jacket was already flying in the wind, but I kept
on preaching and many tried to listen.
Then suddenly, that unction came and I
uttered some words. I only remember that the
people started clapping but I didn’t know what I
said until I later heard it on the tape. I said “Wind,
not this way. Turn around and go that way!” When
I spoke those words, I saw the wind turn 180
degrees and go in the other direction. Calm
returned, the people were able to receive the
message, and we had a glorious meeting.
 MIRACLES HAPPEN BY THE SPIRIT
OF THE LORD
I remember another incident in 1986. I was
preaching at a meeting and there was this crippled
young man sitting in the front row with his
crutches beside him. I had just started preaching
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
42
and hadn’t quite gone ten minutes into my
message when, suddenly, I was full of the Spirit.
I hadn’t planned to do this, and I hadn’t even
thought about it, but right in the middle of my
message, I turned abruptly to that crippled fellow,
got hold of him and said, “Walk, in Jesus’ Name!”
I pulled him up, and he started walking! Of course,
everybody was shouting, rejoicing and praising
God to the high heavens. We went on that night
and had more miracles and manifestations of the
Spirit.
That’s what happens when the Spirit of the
Lord takes over. You don’t think about it. You
don’t reason it out and wonder, What am I going
to do now? He just moves you to act.
When He caught Philip away, He didn’t wait
for him to prepare specially for it. Philip didn’t have
the time to announce to the eunuch who was with
him, “Now I’m about to journey to Azotus.
Nobody knows I’m going there, but I know I am!”
No, he wasn’t squeezing out faith. The Spirit of
the Lord just caught him and took him away.
43
q THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD q
HE’S NOT A STILL, SMALL VOICE
When the Spirit of the Lord comes upon you,
you may not be talking but you’ll start seeing
things. There’ll be a new boldness in your soul.
That’s what the prophet Micah meant when he
said, “I am full of power by the spirit of the Lord,
and of judgment, and of might, to declare unto
Jacob his transgression, and to Israel his sin” (Micah
3:8).
Some think of the Spirit of the Lord as “a still,
small voice.” That’s because they don’t know Him.
He’s not a still, small voice; He’s the Spirit of
dominion.
He welled up in Paul when Elymas the
sorcerer challenged him, and the Bible tells us that
“Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit (the Spirit of the
Lord), glared angrily at the sorcerer and said, You
son of the devil, full of every sort of trickery and
villainy, enemy of all that is good, will you never
end your opposition to the Lord? And now God
has laid his hand of punishment upon you, and
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
44
you will be stricken awhile with blindness. Instantly
mist and darkness fell upon him, and he began
wandering around begging for someone to take
his hand and lead him” (Acts 13:8-11 TLB).
Now that doesn’t sound like a still, small
voice, does it?
PREPARE YOURSELF FOR HIM
Some say when you pray hard enough that’s
when the power comes. No, it’s got nothing to do
with praying hard but everything to do with your
hunger. You see, the Holy Spirit doesn’t force
Himself on anybody. The question is: How much
do you want Him?
If you want Him, He will fill you. He never
goes where He’s not wanted, except when He
shows up to enforce a change or bring judgment.
Remember, He’s Boss, so we don’t stir Him up.
We don’t shake Him up to get Him to do things.
Instead we prepare for Him. The Bible says if
you’re a vessel that’s prepared, you’ll be ready and
fit for the Master’s use (2 Timothy 2:21).
45
q THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD q
God wants to use you, but He wants you to
be ready for Him. He wants you to be cleansed,
separated, and sanctified. Then you’ll be ready for
Him to use you.
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
WISDO
WISDO
WISDO
WISDO
WISDOM
3
A  nd the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon
him, the spirit of wisdom…”  (Isaiah 11:2).
The Spirit of wisdom is the One Who brings
you the wisdom of God. Paul prayed for the
Ephesian Christians “that the God of our Lord Jesus
Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the
spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge
of him:” (Ephesians 1:17), because he observed
that the Ephesian Christians were demonstrating
the power and glory of God, but lacked wisdom
and revelation knowledge.
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
48
This is what happens to a lot of God’s people.
They have the gifts of the Spirit; they can prophesy
and have great things happen, but when it comes
to walking in the wisdom and knowledge of the
things of God, they’re found wanting. Such people
need to pray that God will grant them the Spirit of
wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of Him.
Then they’ll be balanced.
To appreciate the work of the Spirit of
wisdom, we must first understand what wisdom
is. You may not find these definitions in any English
dictionary because true wisdom can only be
defined by the Spirit of God.
THE ACCURATE DEFINITION OF
WISDOM
Wisdom is so often defined as the ability to
apply knowledge. This definition is inadequate
and is usually employed by those who don’t
understand what real wisdom is. However, when
you have the Spirit of wisdom functioning in you,
you’d understand how to define wisdom.
q THE SPIRIT OF WISDOM q
49
Firstly, Wisdom is a force. It’s the divine insight
into the plans and purposes of God. It’s
understanding spiritual realities.
Wisdom can also be defined as the insight of
knowledge and the controlling power of insight.
Wisdom is insight into reality (truth), foresight
into the future. It causes you to understand what
others can’t see. With wisdom, you can rightly
judge what others can’t figure out.
 I said wisdom is a force; it’s more than an
ability. You can have the ability to do something
and not do it. For example, you’re looking at a
glass and you know you’re supposed to remove it
from where it is. You also know you have the
ability to do so, but you don’t do it. That’s not
wisdom. Wisdom causes you to do what you
should do!
If you have the ability to apply knowledge and
you don’t apply it, or you know what’s right to do
and you don’t do it, you’re not wise. In fact, you’ll
be described as a fool, because you knew what to
do and how to do it but you still didn’t do it!
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
50
The wisdom of God has the power to cause
you to say what you should say, do what you
should do and think what you should think. It
makes you go where you should go. Wisdom is
not passive; it’s manifested by action.
When Paul said, “For it is God which worketh
in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure,”
he was talking about the Spirit of wisdom working
in us. Wisdom is the controlling power that works
in us, not just to will, but also to do God’s good
pleasure. It’s a force that propels, compels, moves,
and motivates. It brings you understanding,
information, insight, and knowledge. Wisdom is
all-encompassing.
Here’s what Wisdom has to say of Himself:
“I wisdom dwell with prudence, and find
out knowledge of witty inventions”
(Proverbs 8:12).
q THE SPIRIT OF WISDOM q
51
Wisdom says, “I don’t go alone, I have prudence
(discretion or good judgment in practical affairs) and
knowledge with me.” You have insight and
foresight because the Spirit of wisdom brings them
to you. But His ministry doesn’t stop there; He lets
loose within your system that controlling force
that causes you to act wisely.
WITH WISDOM, YOU HAVE IT MADE!
When you lack wisdom, you may think the
wrong thoughts, say the wrong words, do the wrong
things, and make the wrong choices. And most of
the problems people have are caused by the wrong
choices they made.
Leaders make the wrong choices because they
lack wisdom, and as a result nations are thrown into
turmoil. People make wrong investments and lose
money because they don’t have the wisdom of God.
Someone marries the wrong person and gets stuck
in an unsavoury marriage because he or she lacks
wisdom. But when Wisdom resides in you, it will
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
52
pilot you in the right direction. That’s why you
need the Spirit of wisdom operating in your life.
When the Spirit of wisdom functions in you,
life becomes bright and exciting. In Proverbs 3:13-
14, Solomon—the wisest man to live before Jesus—
said, “Happy is the man that findeth wisdom and
the man that getteth understanding. For the
merchandise of it is better than the merchandise
of silver and the gain thereof than fine gold.”
This is the secret! If you find wisdom, you have
it made. You cannot fail or be poor, no, not with
wisdom!
“She (wisdom) is more precious than
rubies: and all the things thou canst desire
are not to be compared unto her. Length
of days is in her right hand; and in her left
hand riches and honour. Her ways are
ways of pleasantness, and all her paths
are peace”
     (Proverbs 3:15-17).
q THE SPIRIT OF WISDOM q
53
When wisdom is working in you, your life will
be full of peace. You won’t ever have to worry
about lack, want, sickness, disease, or anything
contrary to the good life. The Hebrew word
translated “peace” is “shalom.” Shalom doesn’t
just depict quietness and tranquility or an
environment where no one is disturbing you. More
importantly, shalom means peace with prosperity;
peace with everything going on perfectly and
under your control.
Shalom is a state of completeness, wholeness,
total well-being, health and prosperity that
produces rest. Thus, shalom is the peace of God
that gives prosperity, health, strength, and
advantage.
When you have such peace, you’ll sleep like
a baby. You won’t sleep fitfully and you won’t
need pills to knock you off to sleep every night.
When I sleep, I sleep well! When I laugh, I laugh
heartily, not like someone who’s trying to. I live a
tremendous life because of the peace that wisdom
brings.
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
54
CHRIST IS OUR WISDOM
“But of him (God) are ye in Christ Jesus,
who of God is made unto us wisdom, and
righteousness, and sanctification, and
redemption:”
      (1 Corinthians 1:30).
In the New Testament, we have something
that Solomon, in all his wisdom, didn’t have—
Christ! He’s our wisdom. Colossians 2:3 tells us
“In whom (Christ) are hid all the treasures of wisdom
and knowledge.” In Christ are hidden all the
treasures of wisdom and knowledge. In other
words, He is the embodiment of all wisdom and
all knowledge.
So when you make Jesus the Lord of your life
and He takes up His abode in the quarters of your
heart, that’s Wisdom dwelling in your heart.
However, it’s one thing to have Jesus Christ as your
Saviour and Lord in general but it’s something
totally different when He becomes Lord of your
mind (your decisions, thoughts, and emotions).
q THE SPIRIT OF WISDOM q
55
That’s when wisdom starts functioning in you.
When Jesus becomes Lord of your mind, He
begins to direct your thinking. Your mind becomes
anointed of God, and an anointed mind receives
sanctified thoughts, thoughts that are reserved for
kings. Glory to God!
The Bible says in Proverbs 25:2 that “It is the
glory of God to conceal a thing: but the honour of
kings is to search out a matter.” This is what the
Bible calls the knowledge of the holy. God hides
it from the world, then He ministers divine wisdom
to your mind by the anointing of the Holy Ghost
and you begin to discover secret things.
  WISDOM CAN BE SEEN AND HEARD
“And the spirit of the LORD shall rest
upon him, the spirit of wisdom …And shall
make him of quick understanding in the
fear of the LORD: and he shall not judge
after the sight of his eyes, neither reprove
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
56
after the hearing of his ears…”
  (Isaiah 11:2-3).
Until someone speaks or acts, you may not
know he has the Spirit of wisdom, but Wisdom
can be seen and heard. When He functioned in
Solomon, everybody knew. One day, they brought
before him two women who lived in the same
house. Both of them had just delivered their babies
three days apart from each other. One night, one
of them slept over her son and killed him. On
realizing she had accidentally killed her baby, she
went over to her neighbour’s bed and switched
the babies.
The other woman woke up the next morning
to feed her baby, only to discover he was dead.
She looked closely at the dead child and knew he
wasn’t hers. So she went looking for her baby and
saw him with her roommate and tried to claim her
child back, but a fight ensued.
When the matter was brought before King
Solomon, everyone wondered what he would do
about it. None of the women came with their
q THE SPIRIT OF WISDOM q
57
husbands, so no daddy could speak. No one else
lived in the house with them, so there were no
witnesses.
The king wisely requested for a sword and
ordered that the live baby be divided into two.
The mother cried out “No! Don’t kill him. Give
her the baby instead.” But the other woman said,
“Yes, kill him so he won’t belong to either of us.”
Solomon then stood up and said to the real
mother, “This is your baby. Take him.”
The Bible says, “all Israel heard of the judgment
which the king had judged; and they feared the
king: for they saw that the wisdom of God was in
him, to do judgment” (1 Kings 3:28). I told you
wisdom can be seen and heard.
LET WISDOM TAKE CHARGE OF YOU
Solomon knew the real mother wouldn’t want
her child killed. The false mother said, “Go ahead
and kill him, so neither of us will have him.” That’s
just like some people who say, “I cannot please
you and displease myself.” If you’re a Christian,
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
58
you shouldn’t talk like that.
Maybe you want to buy a pair of shoes and
another person wants to buy the same shoes, then
an argument starts. You say, “I picked them first!”
But the other fellow insists, “No, I got here first.”
Just let it go, child of God. Your heavenly
Father will get you another one that’s even better
than that!
Some people still say things like, “If not for
God, I know what I’d have done to you,” or “If
you provoke me, I’ll show you the side of me that
is not born again.” You don’t have to say such
things, you’re a Christian. Let the Spirit of wisdom
take charge of your mind, your thoughts, your
words and your actions.
Remember, Christ—the embodiment of
wisdom—dwells in you and has imparted His
nature of wisdom to you. That Spirit of wisdom
Paul talked about in Ephesians 1:17 dwells in you.
You can begin to take full advantage of His ministry
in your life today and live the good life God has
planned for you to live.
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
UNDERS
UNDERS
UNDERS
UNDERS
UNDERSTANDING
ANDING
ANDING
ANDING
ANDING
4
T  hat the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the
Father of glory, may give unto you the
spirit of wisdom and revelation in the
knowledge of him: The eyes of your
understanding being enlightened; that ye
may know what is the hope of his calling,
and what the riches of the glory of his
inheritance in the saints”
    (Ephesians 1:17-18).
Observe the content of Paul’s prayer for the
Ephesian saints in verse 18: “The eyes of your
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
60
understanding being enlightened.” This is an
operation of the Spirit of understanding. He’s the
One Who helps you understand the hope to
which you’ve been called by God and the wealth
of His glorious inheritance in you.
Paul also prayed for them in Ephesians 3:18-
19 that they “May be able to comprehend (that is,
understand) with all saints what is the breadth, and
length, and depth, and height; And to know the
love of Christ, which passeth knowledge….”
This prayer of Paul the apostle for the Ephesian
Christians to understand and know together with
all saints the breadth, and length, and depth, and
height of the love of Christ was necessary because
they had not yet understood or known the depth
and power of the love of Christ. They didn’t have
in demonstration the Spirit of understanding and
the Spirit of knowledge.
Today, there are those who may have the
gifts of the Spirit in manifestation but lack
understanding of the Word. Such people need to
pray that they will be filled with the Spirit of
q THE SPIRIT OF UNDERSTANDING q
61
understanding so they can understand together
with other saints the power of Christ’s love for
them and in them.
JESUS IMPARTED THE SPIRIT OF
UNDERSTANDING TO HIS DISCIPLES
The anointing of the Spirit comes on us at
different times and in different ways, but we need
to understand the Spirit’s purpose. Anybody can
study the Bible, however only when you’re
anointed can you understand God’s Word and
receive revelations of the Spirit. The anointing can
come on you to give you understanding of the
Word. Such an anointing comes from the Spirit of
understanding.
John the apostle writes: “Then said Jesus to
them again, Peace be unto you: as my Father hath
sent me, even so send I you. And when he had
said this, he breathed on them, and saith unto them,
Receive ye the Holy Ghost:” (John 20:21-22).
Jesus was talking to His disciples and He
breathed on them. The word translated “breathed”
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
62
here is “emphusao” which also means “to blow at
or on.” So Jesus blew on them and said unto them,
“Receive ye the Holy Ghost!”
I want you to know this was not the same
occasion as when the Holy Ghost came to dwell
in them, because we read later in Acts 2:1-4 that
the same disciples on the day of Pentecost, were
all together in one place, in one accord, and they
were all filled with the Holy Ghost and began to
speak with other tongues.
John’s record of the event in John 20:22 helps
give an explanation to the account of Luke in Luke
24:45:
“Then opened he their understanding,
that they might understand the
scriptures,”
John lets us know how Jesus opened their
hearts and imparted understanding to them.
  Understand that the synoptic gospels are
Matthew, Mark and Luke. John’s gospel was
written long after these first three and the reason
q THE SPIRIT OF UNDERSTANDING q
63
he wrote it was to clarify what many regard as the
dark areas in the synoptic gospels.
So we get the clearest picture of what
happened when we put John 20:22 and Luke
24:45 together. We see that when Jesus blew on
His disciples and said to them, “Receive ye the
Holy Ghost,” He actually imparted the Spirit of
understanding to them and their minds were
anointed to understand the Scriptures.
WITH ALL YOUR GETTING,
GET UNDERSTANDING!
Solomon said, “Wisdom is the principal thing;
therefore get wisdom: and with all thy getting get
understanding” (Proverbs 4:7). You’ll see why
understanding is so important when you read the
parable of the sower in Mark chapter 4:
 “Hearken; Behold, there went out a sower
to sow: And it came to pass, as he sowed,
some fell by the way side, and the fowls
of the air came and devoured it up…The
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
64
sower soweth the word. And these are
they by the way side, where the word is
sown; but when they have heard, Satan
cometh immediately, and taketh away the
word that was sown in their hearts”
        (Mark 4:3-4,14-15).
While explaining this parable to His disciples,
Jesus revealed to them that the seeds that fell by
the wayside represented those who heard the
Word of God and didn’t understand it, and
because they didn’t understand it, the devil came
immediately and stole the Word from their hearts.
“When any one heareth the word of the
kingdom, and understandeth it not, then
cometh the wicked one, and catcheth
away that which was sown in his heart.
This is he which received seed by the way
side”
          (Matthew 13:19).
The first time I read this scripture, I was amazed
that Satan could steal the Word of God, but he
q THE SPIRIT OF UNDERSTANDING q
65
did—from the hearts of those who didn’t
understand. God’s Word is the only thing the devil
seeks to take away from you, because every other
thing in life stems from the Word. The devil comes
around immediately the Word comes to you, and
the purpose of his coming is to steal the Word from
your heart.
When you hear the Word of the Kingdom and
neglect to understand it, you’re giving room to the
devil to steal it from your heart. This is why you
ought to have the Spirit of understanding at work
in your life. He’s the One Who helps you
understand the Word of God that comes to you.
UNDERSTANDING COMES BY
REVELATION
“For this cause I Paul, the prisoner of
Jesus Christ for you Gentiles, If ye have
heard of the dispensation of the grace of
God which is given me to youward: How
that by revelation he made known unto
me the mystery; (as I wrote afore in few
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
66
words, Whereby, when ye read, ye may
understand my knowledge in the mystery
of Christ)”
          (Ephesians 3:1-4).
Paul explains here that God made the mystery
of Christ known to him by revelation. The word
“known” is translated from the Greek word
“gnorizo,” which means “to give to understand.”
In essence, Paul was saying that God, by
revelation, gave him understanding of the mystery
of Christ.
This presupposes that you cannot receive
the understanding of a (spiritual) mystery by
intellectual knowledge—not from school or
anywhere else in the world. It comes by the
revelation of the Holy Spirit.
Now, don’t let anybody lie to you that you’re
not supposed to understand God’s Word because
the ordained minister is the only one gifted for that.
That was what they said in the dark ages. They
said only the pope and the priests could
understand the Scriptures, and they kept God’s
q THE SPIRIT OF UNDERSTANDING q
67
people in darkness for hundreds of years.
The teacher may be anointed to teach the
Word, but he’s not more anointed to understand
it than you are. So let no one keep you in bondage;
it’s been given to you to understand the mysteries
of the Kingdom. That’s what Jesus said!
UNDERSTANDING HAS BEEN
GIVEN TO YOU!
Jesus always had a multitude gathered to
listen to Him, but not all of the multitude were
His disciples. So He would often speak to the
multitude in parables. On one occasion, He had
just told them the parable of the sower and none
of them understood it, including the twelve
apostles.
When He was away from the crowd, His
disciples came to Him and asked, “Why speakest
thou unto them in parables?” (Matthew 13:10).
Jesus then told them why He spoke in
parables: “Because it is given unto you to know
the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
68
it is not given” (Matthew 13:11).
This is marvellous. Even though the disciples
didn’t understand the parable at the time, Jesus
said it was given to them to understand. The ability
to understand it was theirs, they just didn’t know
it.
If you’re a child of God, you have understanding
of the mysteries of the Kingdom of Heaven. Jesus
said so and you ought to be glad about it!
You say, “Well, I’ve been reading the Bible
and I couldn’t understand anything” or “I went to
Church and listened to the message, but I really
didn’t understand what the preacher was saying.”
Stop talking that way! Talk in agreement with
Jesus. He said it is given to you to know the
mysteries of the Kingdom of Heaven; that’s your
inheritance.
That you didn’t understand something doesn’t
mean it wasn’t given to you to understand. There
are times you don’t understand certain things the
first time you hear them, but you’ve been given
the ability to understand them all the same. If you
69
q THE SPIRIT OF UNDERSTANDING q
didn’t seem to “catch” it the first time, what you
should do is study some more. Get the tapes and
books; listen to the tapes and read the books again
and again, and through the power of the Spirit of
understanding, you’ll get to understand the truths.
So don’t say you don’t understand the Word
that comes to you; it’s been given to you to
understand the things of the Kingdom.
HEAR IT, SEE IT, UNDERSTAND IT
AND YOU’LL BE ‘CONVERTED’
“For this people’s heart is waxed gross,
and their ears are dull of hearing, and their
eyes they have closed; lest at any time
they should see with their eyes, and hear
with their ears, and should understand
with their heart, and should be converted,
and I should heal them”
          (Matthew 13:15).
These are the words of Jesus, and if anybody
knew the truth, Jesus did, for He is Himself Truth.
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
70
Here, Jesus lets us into a simple, but profound
principle of God’s Word: If you ever see, hear,
and understand the Word of God, you’ll be
converted.
To be “converted” in this context means to
have your situation turned around for good. In
other words, you’ll not have to put in any other
effort to effect a change. Just hear the Word, see
it, understand it, and it will automatically turn your
situation around and change things in your life.
If you’re in the Kingdom of God and have
been born of His Spirit, then you’ve already been
given an understanding heart. You’re not trying
to get it, nor are you praying for it. It’s your present-
hour possession. It belongs to you now!
The Spirit of understanding is at work in you.
All you have to do now is recognize His presence
in your life and He will reveal to you the mysteries
of the Kingdom of God. Then you can have things
change in your life and turn situations around in
your favour.
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
COUNSEL
COUNSEL
COUNSEL
COUNSEL
COUNSEL
5
A
      nd the spirit of the Lord shall rest
upon him, the spirit of wisdom and
understanding, the spirit of counsel…”
    (Isaiah 11:2).
The Spirit of counsel is the fourth of the seven
Spirits of God listed in Isaiah 11:2. He is the One
Who guides you. The psalmist, speaking of
counsel, says,
“I will bless the LORD, who hath given
me counsel: my reins also instruct me in
the night seasons” (Psalm 16:7).
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
72
David talks about his “reins,” that is, his
inward man, instructing him in the night seasons.
The Spirit of counsel instructs you and guides you
from within. That’s the Spirit by which the Lord
guides your life.
Let’s see something else about counsel in Acts
16:6:
“Now when they (Paul, Silas, and
Timothy) had gone throughout Phrygia
and the region of Galatia, and were
forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the
word in Asia.”
Notice it says they were forbidden of the Holy
Ghost. Paul and his company wanted to go preach
in Asia, but the Holy Ghost forbade them. Then
again in Acts 16:7-9, we read that
“After they were come to Mysia, they
assayed to go into Bithynia: but the Spirit
suffered them not. And they passing by
Mysia came down to Troas.”
q THE SPIRIT OF COUNSEL q
73
This Spirit that dissuaded them from going into
Bithynia was the Spirit of counsel. Also, in Acts
11, Peter recounted how the Spirit of counsel
ministered to him while he was praying in the
house of Simon the tanner:
 “And, behold, immediately there were
three men already come unto the house
where I was, sent from Caesarea unto me.
And the Spirit bade me go with them…”
 (Acts 11:11-12).
The Spirit of counsel instructed Peter to go
with these men and preach the gospel to them in
Caesarea.
Remember the words of David in Psalm 16:7:
“I will bless the Lord who has given me counsel.
My reins (inward guide) also instruct me in the
night seasons.” That’s the Spirit of counsel. He
instructs you and tells you what to do and what
not to do. He directs you in all your affairs.
You may have been headed in the wrong
direction, but when the Spirit of counsel ministers
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
74
to you, “you will hear a voice behind you say,
“No, this is the way; walk here” (Isaiah 30:21 TLB).
THE SPIRIT OF COUNSEL IS THE
EXTRAORDINARY STRATEGIST
“…and his name shall be called
Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God,
The everlasting Father, The Prince of
Peace”
       (Isaiah 9:6).
The original Hebrew rendering of this portion
of the Bible doesn’t say, “Wonderful, Counsellor,”
two different names, as indicated here in the King
James Version. It actually reads as one compound
name: “Wonderful Counsellor.” You’ll observe
that the other names, “Mighty God,” “Everlasting
Father,” and “Prince of peace” with which the
prophet describes the Lord, are also dualized.
The name “Wonderful Counsellor” means
“Extraordinary Strategist.” The Spirit of counsel is
the Extraordinary Strategist. That means He’s
75
q THE SPIRIT OF COUNSEL q
beyond the ordinary mind or senses. He’s
supernatural. He cannot be confused. He knows
the way out of every crisis you face. He knows
how you can come out of the darkness; He knows
how to make you a success. He’s your
Extraordinary Strategist and He lives inside you.
Let’s look at one of His extraordinary
strategies: Moses had just led the children of Israel
out of captivity in Egypt. But Pharaoh wasn’t about
to let them go that easily, and he sent his entire
army in hot pursuit of the “defenceless” Israelites.
They were in a fix. Before them spread out the wide
expanse of the Red Sea. Right behind them, they
could hear the thundering hoofs of horses and
ominous clatter of chariots as the Egyptian army
bore down on them.
Humanly speaking, there was no way of
escape. But as far as the Extraordinary Strategist
was concerned, there was nothing like “no way
out.” That’s why I tell people: “The walls in front
of you don’t exist; the barriers are not real. Close
your eyes; keep walking in the Name of Jesus, and
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
76
they’ll get out of your way!”
When the people cried out to Moses, he in
turn cried out to God, but God’s response was
simply amazing. He said, “…Why do you cry to Me?
Tell the children of Israel to go forward. “But lift up
your rod, and stretch out your hand over the sea
and divide it. And the children of Israel shall go on
dry ground through the midst of the sea” (Exodus
14:15-16 NKJV).
The Extraordinary Strategist told Moses to
stretch his rod over the water and divide it. Moses
did as he was told and the children of Israel were
miraculously delivered. The Red Sea parted and
they went through on dry ground, but the entire
Egyptian army was destroyed in the same sea.
Now if you were Moses or the children of
Israel, you wouldn’t want to go forward if just
anybody told you to do that, but because it was
coming from the Extraordinary Strategist, it
worked.
77
q THE SPIRIT OF COUNSEL q
JEHOSHAPHAT’S EXTRAORDINARY
STRATEGIST IN THE FACE OF WAR
There’s another instance of the Extraordinary
Strategist’s superb counselling prowess in 2
Chronicles 20:1,3-4:
“It came to pass after this also, that the
children of Moab, and the children of
Ammon, and with them other beside the
Ammonites, came against Jehoshaphat to
battle… And Jehoshaphat feared, and set
himself to seek the Lord, and proclaimed
a fast throughout all Judah. And Judah
gathered themselves together, to ask help
of the Lord: even out of all the cities of
Judah they came to seek the Lord”
The small nation of Judah was completely
surrounded and outnumbered by the armies of
three enemy nations—Moab, Ammon, and Mount
Seir. So King Jehoshaphat proclaimed a fast
throughout the land, and the entire nation, as one,
sought the face of the Lord.
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
78
While they prayed and fasted, there was a
word of prophecy. The Spirit of the Lord (the
Extraordinary Strategist) came upon Jahaziel, a
Levite, and He gave the king and the people the
strategy they required to win the battle. He told
them: “You don’t have to fight in this battle, for
the battle is not yours but the Lord’s. Tomorrow,
you go out against the enemy; they’re camping
by the cliff of Ziz. Put twenty singers ahead of your
army. They’re not to carry any weapons of war but
just sing into the war front” (2 Chronicles 20:15-
17).
And that’s exactly what Judah did. They
marched to the camp of the enemy with twenty
singers ahead of them, singing, “Praise the Lord,
for His mercy endureth forever!”
As they sang, the angels of God were
activated; they entered the enemy’s camp and
began to slay them. Pandemonium broke out and
the enemy soldiers, not knowing what hit them,
turned their swords on one another and started
killing one another. By the time God’s people got
q THE SPIRIT OF COUNSEL q
79
into their enemies’ camp, they were all dead! (2
Chronicles 20:22-24).
No wonder Paul said, “the weapons of our
warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to
the pulling down of strong holds;) Casting down
imaginations, and every high thing that exalteth itself
against the knowledge of God, and bringing into
captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ;”
(2 Corinthians 10:4-5). Hallelujah!
It doesn’t matter what you’re going through
or how hopeless the situation looks, you can still
shout, “Praise the Lord!” because your
Extraordinary Strategist will show you what to do
and you’ll come out victoriously!
  HE’S YOUR MIRACLE-PRODUCING
               COUNSELLOR
The term “Wonderful Counsellor” in Isaiah 9:6
also refers to the counsel of a king. In Micah 4:9,
the prophet asks, “Now why dost thou cry out
aloud? is there no king in thee? is thy counsellor
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
80
perished? for pangs have taken thee as a woman
in travail,” thus equating the king with the
counsellor. He’s dealing here with the wise counsel
of a king, counsel backed up with power.
The Hebrew word translated “wonderful” here
actually means “mighty acts and deeds,
miraculous works.” So he’s talking about miracle-
producing counsel that comes from a king, and
that can only be the Lord, Who gives you counsel
within that produces miracles without.
I’ll give you a simple example: Only the Lord
could have told Moses, “Take your shepherd’s rod,
go to Pharaoh and wield that rod before him and
there would be miracles.” Only the counsel of the
Lord could have instructed him, “Hold that rod in
your hand, stand before the rock, strike it, and
water will come out.”
Ordinarily, this counsel doesn’t seem to make
any sense, but the Bible says where the word of a
king is there is power (Ecclesiastes 8:4), and we’re
talking about the counsel of not just any king, but
the King of kings!
81
q THE SPIRIT OF COUNSEL q
ISAAC’S COUNSELLOR IN A
TIME OF FAMINE
At a certain time, there was a prolonged dry
season all over the land of Canaan. Famine had
set in and many people were leaving for Egypt.
Then God told Isaac, “Sojourn in this land, and I
will be with thee, and will bless thee; for unto thee,
and unto thy seed, I will give all these countries,
and I will perform the oath which I sware unto
Abraham thy father; And I will make thy seed to
multiply as the stars of heaven, and will give unto
thy seed all these countries; and in thy seed shall
all the nations of the earth be blessed;” (Genesis
26:3-4).
True to His words, every time Isaac went
somewhere and dug the ground, he struck water,
and the people couldn’t understand it. Nobody
else found water; even though they dug deep, they
still couldn’t get water. But when Isaac came and
dug right beside them, water came out!
During this period, everyone lost his crop as
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
82
the famine was severe. But Isaac had counsel from
within. He had been told by the Lord, “Stay in this
land…and I will be with you and bless you” (Genesis
26:2-3a TEV). So in the midst of severe famine and
drought, “Isaac sowed in that land, and received
in the same year an hundredfold: and the Lord
blessed him. And the man waxed great, and went
forward, and grew until he became very great:
(Genesis 26:12-13). Isaac had a miracle-producing
Counsellor!
Counsel such as those illustrated in this
chapter all had to have come from the mouth of
God; otherwise, they would have failed woefully
and resulted in utter disaster! However, this is the
Spirit of counsel at work. Isaiah calls Him your
Wonderful Counsellor. He is your miracle-
producing Counsellor, your Extraordinary
Strategist. When He tells you to do something, it
may sound illogical, but it’s miracle-producing
counsel. That’s what makes it wonderful; that’s
why it’s a miracle when such counsel brings forth
outstanding results.
83
q THE SPIRIT OF COUNSEL q
Do you have the Spirit of counsel? Has He
ever instructed you? Are you acquainted with Him
or do you find yourself always getting advice from
people? Let the Extraordinary Strategist function
in you, and He’ll instruct you on the right steps to
take in your every endeavour. Take advantage of
Him today. Receive His counsel and you will have
direction.
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
MIGHT
MIGHT
MIGHT
MIGHT
MIGHT
6
I
    saiah 11:1-2: “And there shall come
forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, and a
Branch shall grow out of his roots: And
the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him,
the spirit of wisdom and understanding,
THE SPIRIT OF counsel and MIGHT…”
The Spirit of might is the fifth of the seven
Spirits of God listed in Isaiah 11:2. There was one
man in the Old Testament who operated
frequently in the Spirit of might. He was a judge in
Israel and Samson was his name.
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
86
Samson didn’t have the Spirit of wisdom as
Moses or Joshua had, otherwise, he wouldn’t have
done some of the dumb things he did. But he had
the Spirit of might.
Judges 14:5-6:
“Then went Samson down, and his father
and his mother, to Timnath, and came to
the vineyards of Timnath: and, behold, a
young lion roared against him. And the
Spirit of the Lord came mightily upon him,
and he rent him as he would have rent a
kid, and he had nothing in his hand: but
he told not his father or his mother what
he had done.”
A young lion roared at Samson and attacked
him as he made his way through the vineyards of
Timnath. To appreciate the great peril Samson was
in, you must understand what a young lion is. It’s
not a cub or a weak, old lion that’s ready to die,
but a young, strong lion in its prime.
When Samson saw the lion, he didn’t cry out,
q THE SPIRIT OF MIGHT q
87
“Daddy, help!” He didn’t wonder, “Which way
do I run?!” because in that instant, the Spirit of
the Lord came mightily upon him and he got hold
of the lion and tore it apart as he would have a
little lamb. And he did it with his bare hands!
When he was done, he didn’t go around town
telling everybody, “Guess what I just did!” He
went on his way as though he’d just swatted a fly.
There’s more about this man that I want you
to see:
“And when he came unto Lehi, the
Philistines shouted against him: and the
Spirit of the Lord came mightily upon him,
and the cords that were upon his arms
became as flax that was burnt with fire,
and his bands loosed from off his hands.
And he found a new jawbone of an ass,
and put forth his hand, and took it, and
slew a thousand men therewith”
         (Judges 15:14-15).
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
88
The men of Judah had bound Samson and
delivered him to the Philistines at Lehi. When the
Philistines saw him bound and came charging
toward him, the Spirit of the Lord came mightily
upon him again and he snapped his bands loose
as if they were flax in the fire. Then he took a
jawbone of an ass and killed a thousand of them
with it.
These were not just one thousand ordinary
men; they were armed men of war that had been
trained in combat. It wasn’t because Samson was
a strong man that he was able to destroy them;
the Bible tells us how he did it—the Spirit of the
Lord came mightily upon him.
When the Spirit of might came upon Samson,
he was a changed man. This doesn’t mean he
didn’t know himself or what he was doing
anymore. But when that Spirit came on him, He
took over his senses and his body, so he couldn’t
think or act like an ordinary man. That was why
he could do extraordinary things.
89
q THE SPIRIT OF MIGHT q
I know that David must have read about
Samson and was inspired by his testimonies. Then
the day came when Samuel, the prophet of God,
came to his father’s house and poured oil on his
head. After he had done that, he told David, “Now
you’re anointed by the Holy Spirit,” and from then
on the Spirit of the Lord rested upon David. He
went back to taking care of his father’s sheep, but
he was a different man; he was carrying the
anointing.
One of those days, a lion came to take a lamb
from his flock. Other men would have fled, but
David, being full of the Spirit, charged after the
lion, delivered the lamb from its mouth, and killed
it. He said, “I caught it by its beard.” That’s
marvellous!
Another time, a bear came to take one of the
lambs as David tended the flock and it met the
same fate as the lion. Also, when he faced Goliath
of Gath, the Philistine giant, he told him he would
end up like those beasts he had killed, and that
was exactly what happened.
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
90
These feats of magnificent gallantry were not
done in David’s own strength but by the anointing
of the Spirit of might that was upon him.
MIGHT THAT OVERCOMES STRENGTH
When the Spirit of might is at work in you,
He’ll cause you to be bold, and I’m not just talking
about you trying to muster boldness or trying to
remember Scriptures to quote when trouble strikes.
The Spirit of might, not only gives you boldness,
but also brings you might that overcomes strength.
Isaiah prophesied concerning the Lord Jesus
in Isaiah 9:6 and called Him “The Mighty God.”
This is one of those beautiful names of God and
it’s not referring to might in terms of size, but that
attribute of might that overcomes. It’s talking about
a demonstration of strength in such a way that it
overpowers the strong.
“Might” is one of those words the English
language really doesn’t have a perfect definition
for, but it’s an overpowering force. It’s that which
91
q THE SPIRIT OF MIGHT q
overcomes and surpasses strength itself. It refers
to extraordinary power.
Samson had the Spirit of might. He got to the
city gate of Gaza one day and pulled it out, poles,
bars and all! You can imagine how heavy a city
gate should be. Well, Samson not only pulled this
one out, he put it on his shoulder and carried it far
away from town to the top of a hill! That’s might!
But Samson did even more. After the
Philistines had captured him and gouged his eyes,
they brought him out to entertain them during a
great feast they were having in the temple of
Dagon. Then Samson prayed, “O Lord God,
remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I
pray thee, only this once, O God, that I may be at
once avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes”
(Judges 16:28). After he had prayed thus, the Spirit
of might came upon him and gave him
superhuman strength as before.
Suddenly, his muscles began to bulge. When
he placed his hands on the two middle pillars of
the temple and started heaving against them, his
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
92
captors thought he was kidding and started
laughing at him.
However, some were uneasy and they said,
“Did you hear that cracking noise? I thought I
heard something breaking.”
Others reassured them, “Stop worrying; he’s
just entertaining us,” and they continued drinking,
eating and laughing at Samson as he busied
himself with the pillars.
Then the cracking noise increased and dust
started falling from parts of the column as it
cracked. A hush immediately fell on the temple
and someone whispered, “Hey, don’t you think
we should stop him now?”
Someone else in the crowd shouted, “Oh,
come on! Can’t you see the size of those pillars?
It’s impossible for him to bring them down. More
wine!” and everybody laughed and promptly
resumed their revelling. But before they knew what
was happening, huge slabs of rock started pelting
down as the supporting columns gave way. Their
laughter turned into screams of terror as they were
93
q THE SPIRIT OF MIGHT q
crushed under the huge stones that fell from
everywhere in the building.
Samson brought the whole building down on
over three thousand people and not one of them
escaped; he killed more Philistines in his death than
in his lifetime. He was indeed a mighty man of
valour, the champion of Israel.
Now I know you’re thinking, “Well, that was
Samson; no normal human being could do that!”
You’re right. But if you’re born again, you’re not a
“normal” human being. You’ve been called into a
life of the supernatural and you ought to have the
Spirit of might functioning in you to live that life,
for He’s the One Who empowers you to do
superhuman things.
BE STRENGTHENED WITH MIGHT
Paul prayed a beautiful prayer for the Ephesian
Church but it is also a prayer of the Spirit for all
God’s children:
“For this cause I bow my knees unto the
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
94
Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of whom
the whole family in Heaven and earth is
named that He would grant you according
to the riches of His glory to be
strengthened with might by His Spirit in
the inner man”
      (Ephesians 3:14-16).
“Might” is from the Greek word “dunamis.”
Remember that in Acts 1:8, Jesus said to His
disciples, “Ye shall receive power after that the Holy
Ghost is come upon you.” The word “power” in
Acts 1:8 is from the same Greek word “dunamis”
translated “might” in Ephesians 3:16.
Power is the inherent, dynamic ability to
cause changes. If you want changes in your body,
family, job, or finances, you received the inherent,
dynamic ability to effect those changes when you
received the Holy Ghost!
However, when Paul prayed for the Church
to be strengthened or invigorated from within, he
used the word “might” instead of “power.” There’s
a reason for his choosing the word “might” this
95
q THE SPIRIT OF MIGHT q
time. You must understand that the scriptures were
given to us with words carefully chosen by the
Holy Ghost, and He guided Paul to use the word
“might” in order to communicate His mind to us.
“Might” in Ephesians 3:16 connotes miracle-
working power. So Paul’s prayer is that we be
invigorated with miracle-working power, not in the
church, but in our spirits.
This mighty power overcomes strength, and
God wants it working in us. Therefore, I give you
the same charge Paul gave the Ephesian church:
“Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in
the power of his might” (Ephesians 6:10). Become
conscious of the presence of the Spirit of might
and allow Him to have expression in and through
you.
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
KNO
KNO
KNO
KNO
KNOWLEDGE
WLEDGE
WLEDGE
WLEDGE
WLEDGE
7
              ost times, the difference between a
successful, victorious Christian and the one who’s
not is not so much their gifts, but the knowledge
they have.
Your limitations and your achievements today
are a direct function and clear reflection of your
knowledge or the lack of it. But with the right kind
of knowledge, you can always be greater and
better than you presently are.
The focus in this chapter is on the Spirit of
knowledge, but first we must understand what real
knowledge is, for until we do, we cannot
M
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
98
appreciate or recognize the ministry of the Spirit
of knowledge in our lives.
REVELATION KNOWLEDGE
Knowledge, according to the Webster
Dictionary, is “the fact or condition of being aware
of something, or knowing something with
familiarity gained through experience or
association.” It also means “acquaintance with or
understanding of a science, art, or technique.”
Knowledge could also mean “the circumstance or
condition of apprehending truth or fact through
reasoning.”
However, these definitions would not suffice
for the kind of knowledge we’re dealing with
here—knowledge that comes by the Spirit—
revelation knowledge.
Revelation knowledge is exact knowledge. It
is specific, specialized and absolute knowledge.
It is far removed from sense knowledge, which the
Webster Dictionary has so articulately defined for
us. Revelation knowledge is knowledge from the
q THE SPIRIT OF KNOWLEDGE q
99
Spirit of God that is imparted to your human spirit
without any material medium. It is not a
knowledge of the senses; it therefore transcends
the mental realm. In the arena of revelation
knowledge, there are no assumptions. You just
know that you know what you know.
HEART-KNOWLEDGE VERSUS
HEAD-KNOWLEDGE
There’s an astronomical difference between
sense-knowledge and revelation knowledge, and
the incognizance of that difference has caused
many Christians frustrations in their lives. They feel
they know God’s Word better than the results
they’re experiencing in their lives indicate. So they
keep wondering and asking, “What’s the problem?
Why am I not getting better results than these?”
The problem with such people is that the
knowledge is in their heads and not their hearts.
That’s the reason they just can’t seem to put what
they know to work and get better results.
You can’t really say you’ve known anything
   q
   q
   q
   q
   qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
100
that is of God or from God if you haven’t received
it as a revelation in your spirit. Revelation
knowledge is of the Spirit, and it’s a light through
which God guides your spirit. Sense knowledge,
however, is a gamble.
When you know something by revelation,
you’d walk in the light of it. The fact that you walk
in it is evidence of your knowledge.
I’ve had people ask me, “What if you know
something but don’t put it to use?”
If it’s revelation knowledge, that’ll be very
difficult. It will be the most difficult thing to know
God’s Word in your spirit and not live or act
accordingly. When someone says he knows what
to do but doesn’t do it, what he has is mere sense
knowledge. That knowledge is in his head and not
his heart. He may even talk it, but it won’t work,
because it’s mere information in his brain and not
a life-force proceeding from his heart.
However, revelation knowledge works
differently; it spurs you to action. When you really
know something in your spirit, you’ll do it. If you
q THE SPIRIT OF KNOWLEDGE q
101
don’t do it, that’s proof-positive you don’t know
it.
It’s practically impossible to not act on what
you know in your spirit. That’s because as the
revelation knowledge of God’s Word comes into
your spirit, something happens within you. It
works in your mind, renews your thinking, and
becomes in you a vital force that causes you to
live accordingly. It produces what it talks about
in you and moves you from one level of glory to
another. Revelation knowledge imparts wisdom
to you, praise God!
THE SPIRIT OF KNOWLEDGE BRINGS
AWARENESS
“Now we have received, not the spirit of
the world, but the spirit which is of God;
that we might know the things that are
freely given to us of God”
      (1 Corinthians 2:12).
    q
    q
    q
    q
    qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
102
What Paul is saying here is quite instructive
and we can get the import of it from the Greek
text. For the word translated “know” here, Paul
used a Greek word “eido,” which means “to
become aware.” Replacing “know” with the
phrase “become aware of” gives us a better picture
of what he’s showing us:
“…we have received, not the spirit of the
world, but the spirit which is of God; that
we might become aware of the things that
are freely given to us of God.”
                              (1 Corinthians 2:12).
This is a very significant point, but what does
it mean? Think about it this way: You’re brought
into a large, dark building you’ve never been in
before. Then someone turns on the lights, and
suddenly, you become aware there are things in
there—furniture, home entertainment systems,
electronic gadgets, computers, lights, switches,
doors, locks, e.t.c. You become aware that all these
things are there in the house.
This is the first thing that happens when the
103
q THE SPIRIT OF KNOWLEDGE q
Spirit of knowledge comes into your life. He turns
on the light in your life and you become aware of
the things that are yours in Christ.
However, the fact that you’re now aware of
all the things in the house and that they’re there
for you to use doesn’t mean you know how they
function or how to operate them. So, even though
you’re in the house and you’re aware that all the
things in it are yours to use, you may still be at a
loss.
This is why many uninformed believers find
themselves feeling lost. They’ve come into this
new kind of life, but nothing seems to be working.
So they wonder, “Are these things for real or have
I made a mistake?” No you haven’t made a mistake.
The Spirit of knowledge has only just made you
aware. But there’s more He wants to do than just
bring you an awareness.
    q
    q
    q
    q
    qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
104
THE SPIRIT OF KNOWLEDGE BRINGS
YOU FULL UNDERSTANDING
Ephesians 3:17-19,
“That Christ may dwell in your hearts by
faith; that ye, being rooted and grounded
in love, May be able to comprehend with
all saints what is the breadth, and length,
and depth, and height; And to know the
love of Christ, which passeth knowledge,
that ye might be filled with all the fulness
of God.”
Observe Paul’s choice of words carefully; he
said, “And to know the love of Christ which
surpasses knowledge.” How can you know
something that surpasses knowledge? What was
he talking about when he said for us to have the
knowledge of the love of Christ that surpasses
knowledge?
There are two words here I want you to mark:
“Know” and “Knowledge.”
105
q THE SPIRIT OF KNOWLEDGE q
The Greek word translated “know” is
“Ginosko.” It refers to revelation knowledge, which
is absolute knowledge. So Paul was saying in
essence, “And to have the absolute knowledge of
the love of Christ,” which means, “to know the love
of Christ by revelation.”
For the other word, “knowledge,” Paul
chooses the Greek word “gnosis,” which is
knowledge based on science, a discovery.
Putting both together, Paul would have said,
“to ‘ginosko’ the love of Christ which surpasses
‘gnosis’” that is, “to have a revelation of the love
of Christ which surpasses scientific knowledge or
human discovery.” He was talking about knowing
the love of Christ beyond your senses and human
definitions, but according to revelation. And this
doesn’t just happen; it comes by the Spirit of
knowledge.
   q
   q
   q
   q
   qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
106
HE “BRINGS YOU INTO” ESOTERIC
KNOWLEDGE
This is yet another ministry of the Spirit of
knowledge: He brings you into esoteric
knowledge:
“That the communication [participation]
of thy faith may become effectual by the
acknowledging of every good thing which
is in you in Christ Jesus”
 (Philemon 1:6).
Here, Paul chooses another word, “epignosis,”
which is translated “acknowledging.” You may
have observed that there are similarities between
all these Greek words, but there are also very
significant nuances of meaning that must be
clearly understood.
“Epignosis” is a derivative of another Greek word
“epiginosko” (which is actually a combination of
two root words, “epi” and “ginosko”), and it means
to recognize, perceive, or become fully acquainted
107
q THE SPIRIT OF KNOWLEDGE q
with. It doesn’t just imply an awareness, but a
bringing into esoteric knowledge, a discernment,
a full understanding of the subject.
I call it a ‘’bringing into esoteric knowledge,’’
because, not only does this knowledge come to
you, you’re brought into it. And it’s esoteric
because it’s knowledge meant only for the
“initiated.” This is what the Spirit of Knowledge
does—He brings you into esoteric knowledge.
Paul says the communication of your faith
becomes effective by the “epignosis” of every good
thing in you in Christ Jesus. This means that as you’re
brought into this full and special knowledge of all
the good things that are in you in Christ Jesus, the
sharing of your faith becomes more productive.
Do you know the good things which are in
you in Christ Jesus? You can only know them and
understand them fully through the Spirit of
knowledge. Not only will He help you discover,
He’ll also bring you into the full knowledge of
these things and how to put them to work. Then
you would have a super life, praise God!
   q
   q
   q
   q
   qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
108
YOU HAVE “GINOSKO”
 “Howbeit we speak wisdom among them
that are perfect: yet not the wisdom of
this world, nor of the princes of this world,
that come to nought: But we speak the
wisdom of God in a mystery (esoteric
language), even the hidden wisdom,
which God ordained before the world unto
our glory: Which none of the princes of
this world knew: for had they known
(ginosko) it, they would not have crucified
the Lord of glory”
    (1 Corinthians 2:6-8).
The rulers of the world in Jesus’ day had no
ginosko—revelation knowledge—for had they had
ginosko, they would not have crucified the Lord
of glory. But thank God, it’s different with us:
“But as it is written, Eye hath not seen,
nor ear heard, neither have entered into
the heart of man, the things which God
hath prepared for them that love him. But
109
q THE SPIRIT OF KNOWLEDGE q
God hath revealed them unto us by his
Spirit: for the Spirit searcheth all things,
yea, the deep things of God”
   (1 Corinthians 2:9-10).
This is the Spirit of Knowledge at work in us.
By Him, God reveals all these things to us. We’re
not at a loss. We’re not trying to find out about
God. There’s a revelation of God granted us by
His Spirit.
Remember, the first thing He does is to make
you aware of all the things that are yours in Christ,
then He brings you into full knowledge of them.
However, the question now is: What does this
knowledge mean to you and what can you do with
it? How does it affect you?
When you come into full knowledge and
understanding of these things, your mentality is
affected. There are certain ways you just can’t
reason anymore. Your mind (your whole mentality
and thinking processes) becomes renewed through
the Word.
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
110
Many people remain in a sorry state even after
they’ve been born again because they refuse
revelation knowledge. God Himself said, “My
people are destroyed (crushed, brought under,
made poor, oppressed) for lack of knowledge”
(Hosea 4:6). This is not the lack of knowledge of
economics, government, physics or theology; He’s
talking about lack of “ginosko,” which is
revelation knowledge or spiritual knowledge of
God’s Word.
When revelation knowledge comes into your
spirit, it enlightens you and catapults you to a
higher realm of life. And when you start living
according to revelation knowledge, people would
think you’re a boaster, because you don’t think
or talk like the rest of the world.
Get acquainted with the Spirit of knowledge.
He is the Teacher; He will teach you the Word of
God and impart to your spirit the revelations of
God’s Word that will cause you to walk in His
wisdom, power, and glory. Hallelujah!
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
THE SPIRIT OF
 THE FEAR OF
 THE FEAR OF
 THE FEAR OF
 THE FEAR OF
 THE FEAR OF
THE L
THE L
THE L
THE L
THE LORD
ORD
ORD
ORD
ORD
8
A
      nd the spirit of the Lord shall rest
upon him, the spirit of wisdom and
understanding, the spirit of counsel and
might, the spirit of knowledge and of the
fear of the Lord;”
              (Isaiah 11:2).
Now we meet the last, but not the least, of
the seven Spirits of God listed in Isaiah 11:2. The
Spirit of the fear of the Lord is also referred to as
the Spirit of reverence. Psalm 111:4-10 tells us:
    q
    q
    q
    q
    qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
112
“He hath made his wonderful works to
be remembered: the Lord is gracious and
full of compassion. He hath given meat
unto them that fear him: he will ever be
mindful of his covenant. He hath shewed
his people the power of his works, that
he may give them the heritage of the
heathen. The works of his hands are verity
and judgment; all his commandments are
sure. They stand fast for ever and ever,
and are done in truth and uprightness. He
sent redemption unto his people: he hath
commanded his covenant for ever: holy
and reverend is his name. The fear of the
Lord is the beginning of wisdom: a good
understanding have all they that do his
commandments: his praise endureth for
ever.”
This is the Spirit that worked with the priests
in the Old Testament. Samuel was both prophet
and priest to the children of Israel, and the Bible
says he “called to the LORD, and the LORD sent
q THE SPIRIT OF THE FEAR OF THE LORD q
113
thunder and rain that day; and all the people greatly
feared the LORD and Samuel” (1 Samuel 12:18).
That was orchestrated by the Spirit of the fear of
the Lord.
THE SPIRIT OF THE FEAR OF THE
LORD INSISTS ON REVERENCE
 When this Spirit of reverence comes into a
place, things change. He disciplines people and
sets things in order. He does something big and
everybody becomes quiet and humble in God’s
presence. You’ve got to watch out for this Spirit!
When Ananias and Sapphira misbehaved, He
struck them dead and great fear came upon the
people (Acts 5:1-11).
Any time the anointing of God’s Spirit is so
strong and something spectacular like this
happens, fear (holy awe, reverence) comes upon
the people. That’s the Spirit of the fear of the Lord
in action. He insists that you have reverence for
God and for the things of God.
    q
    q
    q
    q
    qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
114
Some people come late for a church service
and just walk around as if they own the whole
place. They go from row to row, looking for a good
seat while the message is going on, and distracting
everybody in the process. Such people have no
reverence!
If you’re like that, you’ve got to be careful.
Next time you’re late for a service and the message
is on, find a seat quickly, because there’s a Spirit
in that place Who doesn’t take kindly to an
irreverent attitude.
Sometimes, in a meeting, a word of the Spirit
is given and a call is made. At such times, there
has to be reverence. For instance, the minister may
say, “There’s a man here who’s being healed of
arthritis. I want that man to come forward.” If a
woman decides to come forward even when she
heard clearly that the call was for a man, such a
woman doesn’t have that Spirit of the fear of the
Lord in her. I’ve seen people like that knocked
down under the anointing of God’s Spirit!
q THE SPIRIT OF THE FEAR OF THE LORD q
115
Understand what I’m talking about. There’s a
time when the Spirit of God comes into a place
and He insists on absolute reverence.
They didn’t have such reverence in the early
Corinthian church. Even though they were walking
in the manifestations of the gifts of the Spirit, they
lacked the Spirit of the fear of the Lord. They were
scrambling for food meant for the Holy
Communion (1 Corinthians 11:20-22). They were
committing abominable sins (1 Corinthians 5:1)
and there was so much envy, strife and division
among them (1 Corinthians 3:3-4). They had no
reverence for spiritual things.
SUBMIT AND BE HUMBLE
There’s something about the Spirit of the fear
of the Lord that produces humility in you. He
instils in you the fear (reverence) of God and makes
you say the right words.
Insulting words cannot come out of your
mouth when you have the Spirit of the fear of the
Lord. He makes you humble. It doesn’t matter
qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
116
who’s chairing a meeting in which you’re present,
you remain humble because you recognize He’s
in that place.
The apostle Paul said, “Submitting yourselves
one to another in the fear of God.” Take Peter’s
advice in 1 Peter 5:5-6: “all of you be subject one
to another, and be clothed with humility: for God
resisteth the proud, and giveth grace to the humble.
Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty
hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time:”
Yield yourself to this Spirit. He will cause you
to walk in reverence and humility, and exalt you
in the due course of time.
THE FULLNESS
THE FULLNESS
THE FULLNESS
THE FULLNESS
THE FULLNESS
OF THE SPIRIT
OF THE SPIRIT
OF THE SPIRIT
OF THE SPIRIT
OF THE SPIRIT
9
N
               ow you understand that the Holy
Spirit can function in your life in a greater measure
and you can participate fully in the divine nature.
When all seven Spirits of God are functioning
in your life, there’ll be no confusion. You’ll be
balanced. You’ll be full of power by the Spirit of
the Lord and the Spirit of might.
You’ll also be full of the Word because of the
Spirit of wisdom, the Spirit of knowledge, the Spirit
of understanding, and the Spirit of counsel.
And then, the Spirit of the fear of the Lord will
balance these up with humility. You will not
  q
  q
  q
  q
  qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
118
become puffed up because of the abundance of
power and revelation manifested in your life.
In Ephesians 3:16-19, Paul prays for the
Ephesian Christians:
That he (God) would grant you, according
to the riches of his glory, to be
strengthened with might by his Spirit in
the inner man; That Christ may dwell in
your hearts by faith; that ye, being rooted
and grounded in love, May be able to
comprehend with all saints what is the
breadth, and length, and depth, and
height; And to know the love of Christ,
which passeth knowledge, that ye might
be filled with all the fulness of God.”
This is so beautiful. Here we see Paul praying
for the manifestation of the Spirit of might, the Spirit
of understanding, and the Spirit of knowledge.
Then he caps it all up when he prays, “that ye
might be filled with all the fullness of God.” That’s
depicting all the seven Spirits of God. If this was
q THE FULLNESS OF THE SPIRIT q
119
good and necessary for the Ephesian Christians,
we need it even more today.
God really wants to do something in your life.
It’s not right for you to walk only in a measure of
God’s Spirit; you’ll lose out that way. You need to
be filled with all the fullness of God’s Spirit.
MAKE ROOM FOR THE SPIRIT
Now the question is: Do you have room in
your life for the Spirit? Is there still any space in
your heart for Him or have you clogged your heart
with all kinds of cares and concerns? You must
consciously get rid of the dross and make room
for the Spirit in your life.
In Luke 4:18, Jesus said,
“The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because
he hath anointed me to preach the gospel
to the poor; he hath sent me to heal the
brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to
the captives, and recovering of sight to
the blind, to set at liberty them that are
bruised,”
     q
     q
     q
     q
     qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
120
The Spirit of the Lord is the One Who helps
you with power to do things, and He’s functioning
in you even now as you read. You may be a
minister reading this book; you’ve got to have the
Spirit of the Lord anoint you. That unction has to
be there in your ministry, otherwise, it will be
empty.
Remember, the Holy Spirit of God is a Person.
He’s not a thing, nor is He fluid, oil, water, a cloud
or gas. So don’t think, “Well, they poured the
anointing oil on me to ordain me. If it was on me
then, it’s still on me now.”
True, the anointing came on you the day you
were ordained a minister, but how much anointing
are you walking in now? For some people, all
they’ve got left in their life is only one of the seven
Spirits of God, Who’s there just to make sure they
get to heaven. It ought not to be that way. You
can be filled with all the fullness of God!
Remember, the Bible says, these seven Spirits
of God have been sent forth into all the earth
(Revelation 5:6). This means the Spirit of God in
121
q THE FULLNESS OF THE SPIRIT q
His full manifestation is working all over the world.
He’s always doing something big with those who
walk with Him.
There may be a Christian whose life is empty
and uninspiring. All he does is read one or two
verses everyday and pray some religious prayer:
“O God, thank You for yesterday, today and
tomorrow. Bless me and my family. Bless
everybody. Bless the whole world. Plus God, minus
devil, in Jesus’ Name. Amen.” That’s about all he
knows to pray!
For some others, they pray today to cover the
entire week. They say they don’t have time to pray
in the mornings because they go to work very
early. So they pray all their prayer for the week at
every Sunday service. They say, “Lord, this is for
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday,
and Saturday,” and they pray extra hard, imagining
that they’re stocking their prayer reservoir full for
the week. So they go on to do whatever they like
from Monday to Saturday. Come another Sunday,
they’re in church, ready for another weekly
     q
     q
     q
     q
     qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
122
stockpiling of prayer. God doesn’t want you living
like that.
When God sent manna from heaven to feed
the children of Israel, He told them, “You’ve got
to eat today’s manna today. Don’t keep some for
tomorrow, for tomorrow, there’ll be a fresh one
for you to eat” (Exodus 16:19).
This is letting us know we’re supposed to
receive the ministry of the Spirit everyday, because
we require His guidance in our lives everyday.
Yesterday’s guidance will not suffice for today, and
today’s will not suffice for tomorrow. We have to
have a relationship with Him today, and in the
“now” of our lives. We must walk with the Spirit
and in the Spirit today!
 HOW TO PRAY AND BE FILLED
WITH THE SPIRIT
If you would pray and get filled with the Holy
Spirit and let Him take charge of your day, you’ll
begin to experience tremendous increase in every
123
q THE FULLNESS OF THE SPIRIT q
area of your life. That’s why you’ve got to learn to
pray like this:
“Father, in the Name of the Lord Jesus, I
understand from the Word of God that
You’ll take charge of my circumstances if
I let You. You are the Lord of my life, and
I pray that You order my steps today in
the course that You’ve already planned
for me. I want to meet only the people
that You plan for me to meet today, and
hear the things that You plan for me to
hear, and say the things You plan for me
to say.
“I function as a child of God today in the
anointing of the Holy Ghost. I walk in Your
light, in the Name of the Lord Jesus.
There’s nobody coming into my world as
an accident today. The Spirit of dominion
is at work in me today, in the Name of
the Lord Jesus.
    q
    q
    q
    q
    qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
124
“I refuse to fear, for though I walk through
the valley of the shadow of death, I fear
no evil, for You are with me; Your rod and
Your staff comfort me. I refuse to be
defeated today, for I’m a victor in Christ
Jesus. I’m more than a conqueror, in the
Name of the Lord Jesus.
“Thank You Lord for Your presence is with
me today. I thank You for the Spirit of
excellence is at work in me. I do not act
foolishly or utter a foolish word. The
wisdom of God is found in my mouth, and
I give counsel by the Spirit today. I deal
with people by the Spirit today. I see with
the eyes of God today, in the Name of
the Lord Jesus Christ.
“Oh Lord God, I thank You, because good
things are coming my way today. I receive
in the Name of the Lord Jesus. And I’m a
giver today; I’m a blesser today, in the
Name of the Lord Jesus. My body is
125
q THE FULLNESS OF THE SPIRIT q
yielded to You, every fibre of my being
and every bone of my body is for the Holy
Ghost. I’m Your living tabernacle today.
Talk through me; move through me; walk
in me; talk in me, in the Name of the Lord
Jesus.
“The health of God is in me. I refuse to
let my body be subject to sickness, disease
and infirmity. Every fibre of my being is
inundated by the life of God. I’m walking
in divine health, in the Name of Jesus.
Glory to God!”
How can you be defeated when you pray like
this? Your spirit has arisen to the occasion! Don’t
quit praying at this point, because there’s more.
You continue and declare:
“Lord, I thank You for the Spirit of
understanding and the Spirit of knowledge
are functioning in me. I study the Word
of God today and I understand it. I can
see the Word, I can hear the Word, I can
   q
   q
   q
   q
   qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
126
understand the Word and so it’s working
in me, and my mouth cannot be shut. I
will speak boldly concerning the things
of God and the revelations of God that I
receive, in the Name of the Lord Jesus.
“The nations of the world are waiting for
me and I’m coming in the Name of the
Lord. I’ve been commissioned and sent
of God. I’ve got a message from Him to
the world, and they will hear it, in the
Name of Jesus. Watch out world, I’m
coming!”
You can also pray in the Spirit for your family
members and the people you work with. You can
rephrase this prayer to suit you, and include the
names of your family members, friends, colleagues,
etc. in the appropriate places:
“I thank You Father for my children. The
anointing is upon them. They can’t but
do the will of God. They can’t but work
the works of God. They can’t but live in
127
q THE FULLNESS OF THE SPIRIT q
the Word of God, in the Name of Jesus.
No devil hatched out of hell can touch
them. I thank You Father, for Wisdom is
in the mouth of my wife and in her heart.
She functions in the things of God today,
in the Name of the Lord Jesus.
“I pray for every one of my staff in the
Name of Jesus. They cannot but do the
will of God and think the thoughts of
God. In their going out and in their
coming in, not one of them is subject to
the devil. The Word of God is in their
hearts and in their mouths in the Name
of the Lord Jesus!”
Glory to God! This is how I pray. Now, isn’t
this better than praying, “Oh God, help me. Oh
God, bless me, Oh God deliver me…”?
I can’t pray dumb and negative prayers. I lift
my hands up to God and declare, “Father, I’m so
blessed. I’m such a blessed man. I don’t know how
to thank You enough, for You’ve blessed me so
    q
    q
    q
    q
    qTHE SEVEN SPIRITS OF GOD ...divine secrets to the miraculousq
128
much, I’m embarrassed. You said in Your Word
that You’ve blessed me and I looked at my life and
found it so, and everybody that comes into my
world is blessed. Glory to God, I’m blessed!”
This is the way I pray, because this is the way
He told us to pray. When I pray like this, I get full
of the Holy Ghost. Sometimes I say, “Lord, You
told us to be filled with the Spirit, speaking to
ourselves in psalms and hymns. Now, I’m going to
make You some psalms and sing You some
hymns…” and when I start doing that, I get full of
God’s Spirit.
Even now as you’re reading, God’s Spirit is
already working in you. Something is happening
in your spirit right now. The fire of the Holy Ghost
is burning in your heart. So don’t wait; get in the
flow!
Go ahead and begin to worship God and
thank Him. Begin to declare His Word in prayer,
praise, and prophecy. Speak to yourself in psalms,
hymns, and spiritual songs, and you will be filled
with the Spirit.
129
q THE FULLNESS OF THE SPIRIT q
Remember, we’ve been made kings and
priests unto God (Revelation 1:6). So begin to pray
in the Holy Ghost. Sing in the Holy Ghost. Dance
in the Spirit. Laugh in the Spirit. Keep praising God
and rejoicing in His presence, for in His presence,
there’s fullness of joy. Don’t hold back. Get so full
of the Holy Ghost until you’re drunk in Him. That’s
where you function in all seven Spirits of God, and
that’s the secret to a life of the unending
miraculous.
