The 7 things the Holy Spirit will do in you
INTRODUCTION 
Chapter
1.Who Is The Holy Spirit?
2.The Seven-Fold Ministry of The Holy SpiritIn Your Life
3. He Will Give You Understanding 
4.He Will Bring The Anointing Into Your Life
5.He Will Teach You All Things
6.He Will Guide You
7.He Will Cause You To Do Right
8.He Will Bring Colour Into Your Life
9.He Will Vitalize You
10.A Final Word

The greatest thing that God has done for us
since we believed is to make His Spirit available to
us. However, too many of God’s people are like the
12 men in Acts chapter 19, who Paul asked, “Have
you received the Holy Ghost since you believed?”
and they answered him, “We have not so much as
heard whether there be any Holy Ghost!”
Many Christians are completely clueless of
who the Holy Spirit is. Many others who even claim
to know the Holy Spirit and have Him in their lives
don’t know why He is in them. They have no idea
what He can do with them, in them and through
them.
In this book, I’ll be teaching you seven vital
things the Holy Spirit will do in you when He comes
to dwell in you; seven things that will not happen in
your life until you receive and are full of the Holy
Spirit. I’ve already written a book on *‘Seven Things
The Holy Spirit Will Do For You,’ but now I’ll be
sharing with you what He’ll do inside you when He
comes to abide in you.
In Hosea 12:13, the Bible says, “...by a prophet
the Lord brought Israel out of Egypt, and by a
prophet was he preserved.”
Understand what God is saying here. He’s
letting you know that the way He changes your life
is by sending you another human being. He will not
come down Himself into your room; neither will He
send an angel from heaven to change your life. Even
9
if you saw an angel, that may not change your life.
God Himself may appear to you today and your life
will not change. What changes your life is when God
sends a message to you through another human
being.
In Acts 10 when an angel appeared to
Cornelius, the Roman centurion, he told him to send
messengers to Joppa and fetch Simon Peter who
would speak words to him by which he would be
saved.
In the same way, God brought Israel out of
Egypt; He brought them out of their suffering, sorrow
and bondage by sending them a prophet by the
name of Moses. Moses delivered them from their
bondage to Egypt and changed their lives.
The message that God put in Moses’ mouth to
speak to the children of Israel was the message that
kept them alive. That was the message that gave
them prosperity and success. It was the same message
that established them and helped them in everything
they did.
Introduction
10
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
In the same way God brought Israel out of
Egypt and preserved them through the prophet
Moses, He has sent me to you as His prophet to give
you a Word of revelation in this book that is
guaranteed to change your life forever.
Don’t take the things you’re about to read or
the thoughts they’ll stir in you lightly. They will
change your family, your finances and your health.
They will change everything about your life today
and your future!
This message of the Spirit will bring you light. It
will change your ministry, your relationships, your
job or your business. It will produce a great future
for you and change your destiny forever!
You will do yourself much good to read through
this book over and over until you’ve imbibed its
message. Let the thoughts shared in it become a part
of you and your daily experience. Then you’ll be able
to walk with the Holy Spirit in the understanding of
what He is in you to do, and enjoy the fulness of the
blessings of His presence in your life.
10
11
Get ready for a life-transforming encounter with
the most powerful Person on earth – the Almighty
Spirit of the living God!
Introduction
Have you ever tried to ask  people who  or
what they think  the ‘Holy Spirit’ is. Some may tell
you, “It’s a cloud or smoke coming out of heaven”
or “It’s the anointing oil in a bottle.” Others may
even say, “It’s my prayer handkerchief (what some
call ‘mantle’) or “It’s that influence I feel some-times
that causes me to shake and speak in tongues.”
Well, the Holy Spirit I’ll be teaching you about
Who is the Holy Spirit?
Chapter  One
Chapter  One
Chapter  One
Chapter  One
Chapter  One
14
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
is definitely more than any of these! Oh, how I wish
many more of God’s children will know Him for who
He really is! I will intermittently refer to Him as the
Holy Ghost throughout this book, for ‘Holy Spirit’
and ‘Holy Ghost’ refer to one and the same Person.
The Holy Spirit is the third Person of the
Godhead. He is the Power by which God made the
whole world. The Holy Spirit, the Bible says, is the
One Who garnished the heavens (Job 26:13).
When God speaks, the Holy Spirit is the
One who brings it to pass. He’s the Doer of the
things of God. So, when God wants to do
something in your life, it will have to be by the
Holy Spirit. This is why you need the Holy Spirit in
your life today.
Even the Lord Jesus Christ had to have the
Holy Spirit. It was only after the Holy Spirit came
into His life that His ministry and the miraculous
began. Remember that when He was on earth,
even though He was the Son of God, He didn’t
operate or minister as the Son of God. He operated
15
and ministered as a man, the son of man (1
Timothy 2:5; Matthew 12:8).
The Bible says He laid aside His glory and
became a man like everyone of us; and because
He found Himself being fashioned as a man, He
humbled Himself and became obedient even unto
the death on the cross (Philippians 2:5-8).
When Jesus walked the earth, He was hungry
like everyone else. He was thirsty like everyone else.
He got tired and He slept like everyone else. He could
be tempted like everyone else, but He never fell into
any temptation (Hebrews 4:15). This was why He
needed to have the Holy Spirit, because He didn’t
minister on earth as the Son of God even though He
was the Son of God.
If you have the Holy Spirit and let Him take
charge of your life, it doesn’t matter what your
situation is, He’ll turn it around for your good. If the
Holy Spirit takes over your family,  your business or
your health, it doesn’t matter what troubles you’ve
been experiencing or what’s been going wrong, you
Who Is The Holy Spirit?
16
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
will begin to go from strength to strength, from grace
to grace, from faith to faith, from success to success
and from greatness to greatness. When the Holy Spirit
takes over your life, He’ll drive every sickness out of
your body; He’ll make right everything that was
wrong.
GOD’S PROMISE OF THE
SPIRIT IS FOR EVERYONE
After the resurrection and ascension of the Lord
Jesus Christ, His disciples (120 of them) were
gathered in one accord in the upper room. Then
suddenly, there came a sound from heaven as of a
rushing mighty wind, and it filled the entire house
where they were sitting. Cloven tongues like as of
fire sat on each of them, and they were all filled with
the Holy Ghost (Acts 2:1-4).
When they were all filled with the Spirit of God,
they began to speak words of praise and magnify God
in other tongues. Because of the way they were
17
acting and talking, some of the people looking at
them mocked them, thinking they were drunk.
But then the Bible says,
“…Peter, standing up with the
eleven, lifted up his voice, and said
unto them, Ye men of Judaea, and
all ye that dwell at Jerusalem, be this
known unto you, and hearken to my
words: For these are not drunken, as
ye suppose, seeing it is but the third
hour of the day. But this is that
which was spoken by the prophet
Joel”
       Acts 2:14-16.
       Acts 2:14-16.
       Acts 2:14-16.
       Acts 2:14-16.
       Acts 2:14-16.
The apostle Peter began to quote the prophet
Joel, telling the people that what was prophesied
many years ago had now come:
“And it shall come to pass in the last
days, saith God, I will pour out of
my Spirit upon all flesh: and your
Who Is The Holy Spirit?
18
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
sons and your daughters shall proph-
esy, and your young men shall see
visions, and your old men shall
dream dreams: And on my servants
and on my hand-maidens I will pour
out in those days of my Spirit; and
they shall prophesy: And I will shew
wonders in heaven above, and signs
in the earth beneath; blood, and fire,
and vapour of smoke: The sun shall
be turned into darkness, and the
moon into blood, before that great
and notable day of the Lord come:
And it shall come to pass, that who-
soever shall call on the name of the
Lord shall be saved”
                          Acts 2:17-21.
Acts 2:17-21.
Acts 2:17-21.
Acts 2:17-21.
Acts 2:17-21.
Then he said in verse 38,
“… Repent, and be baptized every one
of you in the name of Jesus Christ for
19
the remission of sins, and ye shall re-
ceive the gift of the Holy Ghost.”
Peter lets us know that the indwelling presence
of the Holy Ghost is the gift of God to every believer.
You don’t have to attain to it. You don’t have to
‘qualify’ for it. All you need is to believe in Jesus
Christ. Peter also said, “For the promise is unto you,
and to your children, and to all that are afar off,
even as many as the Lord our God shall call” (Acts
2:39).
GENTILES OR JEWS
“Christ hath redeemed us from the
curse of the law, being made a curse
for us: for it is written, Cursed is
every one that hangeth on a tree:
That the blessing of Abraham might
come on the Gentiles through Jesus
Christ; that we might receive the
promise of the Spirit through faith”
Who Is The Holy Spirit?
20
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
            Galatians 3:13-14.
 Galatians 3:13-14.
 Galatians 3:13-14.
 Galatians 3:13-14.
 Galatians 3:13-14.
Here, the Bible lets us know Christ was made a
curse for us; He was hanged on a tree. Then it tells us
the reason: “That you might receive the promise of
the Holy Spirit through faith.”
Scripture speaks of two types of people: Jews
and Gentiles. Gentiles, according to the Bible, are
all non-Israelites. If you’re American, Russian, Chinese
or Nigerian, you’re a gentile. No matter where you
come from, as long as you’re not a Jew, you’re a
gentile.
The Jews are the physical descendants of
Abraham but the gentiles are not related to Abraham
by physical descent. Now, God says the blessing of
Abraham will come on the gentiles – non-Jews –
through Christ. That’s the blessing that brings
success, health and prosperity. It’s the blessing that
brings favour into your life and makes you great. That
blessing comes into your life through Jesus Christ,
and it includes the wonderful gift of the Holy Spirit.
21
God has not only made the promise of the Holy
Spirit, He has actually given Him to us. It’s up to us
now to receive Him. But for you to receive from God,
you will have to be ready to respond to Him by faith.
Until you respond to God by faith, you do not
receive from Him, because God is a faith-God.
Now let’s look at that Scripture in Galatians
3:14 again,
“That the blessing of Abraham
might come on the Gentiles through
Jesus Christ; that we might receive
the promise of the Spirit through
faith”
There are two very important things you need
to realise from this verse of Scripture. The first one is:
Whatever we must receive from God must come as
an act of faith, because God is a Faith-God.
Secondly, you must realise that whatever
blessing we receive from God can only come to us
Who Is The Holy Spirit?
22
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
through Jesus Christ.
RECEIVE
ECEIVE
ECEIVE
ECEIVE
ECEIVE T
 T
 T
 T
 THE
HE
HE
HE
HE H
 H
 H
 H
 HOL
OL
OL
OL
OLY
SPIRIT
PIRIT
PIRIT
PIRIT
PIRIT T
 T
 T
 T
 TOD
OD
OD
OD
ODAY
We need today the power of the Holy Spirit in
our lives. The Holy Spirit is the Spirit of God, and
until you have Him, you’ll walk in darkness. It doesn’t
matter how educated or intelligent you are in your
chosen field; it doesn’t even matter how highly-
placed you are in the society, until you have the Holy
Ghost, your life is empty.
If you don’t have the Holy Ghost, the Lord
wants you to receive Him today, and I have outlined
hereunder the simple steps you must take to receive
Him – respond to God by faith and relate to Him
through Jesus. This means you must, first and
foremost, be born again. That’s the beginning of your
relationship with God through Christ Jesus.
If you’ve not been born again, you can pray
the Prayer of Salvation written below. Pray it in faith
23
and audibly too, and you’ll be saved!
“O Lord God, I believe in Jesus
Christ the Son of the living God. I
believe He died for me and I believe
God raised Him from the dead. I con-
fess with my mouth that Jesus Christ
is Lord of my life from this day
forward. I give my life to Jesus Christ
today and open my heart by faith to
receive salvation. Right now I receive
eternal life into my spirit. Thank You
Lord for hearing my prayer. My sins
have all been washed away by the
blood of Jesus. Christ now lives in
me and I am free, I’m saved, I’m born
again, and from today I begin to walk
in the consciousness of my new life
in Christ Jesus. Amen!”
Congratulations and welcome to the family of
God! You’re now a child of God. Remember that your
Who Is The Holy Spirit?
24
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
salvation is the only qualification you require to
receive the Holy Spirit. Now, you can simply ask by
faith and receive Him into your spirit.
Say these words out loud, in faith, expecting
to receive:
“Dear Heavenly Father, I thank You
for the Gift of the Holy Spirit. As
Your child, I now receive Him by
faith to come and dwell in my heart.
I receive Him into my soul and my
body. I receive Him into every fibre
of my being. I am now filled with
the Holy Spirit, and according to
Your Word in Acts 2:4, I speak with
other tongues as He gives me utter-
ance, in the Name of the Lord Jesus
Christ. Amen.”
25
In John 14:16-17, the Lord Jesus said,
“And I will pray the Father, and he
shall give you another Comforter,
that he may abide with you for ever;
Even the Spirit of truth; whom the
world cannot receive, because it seeth
him not, neither knoweth him: but
Chapter T
Chapter T
Chapter T
Chapter T
Chapter Two
wo
wo
wo
wo
The Seven-fold Ministry Of The
Holy Spirit In Your Life
26
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
ye know him; for he dwelleth with
you, and shall be in you.”
Here, we’re shown that the Holy Spirit is the
Spirit of truth – the Spirit of reality. Everything in this
world is but a shadow. It’s the Spirit of reality Who
helps us know what is real.
“And I will ask the Father, and He
will give you another Comforter
(Counselor, Helper, Intercessor,
Advocate, Stren-gthener, and
Standby), that He may remain with
you forever - The Spirit of Truth,
Whom the world cannot receive
(welcome, take to its heart), because
it does not see Him or know {and}
recognize Him. But you know {and}
recognize Him, for He lives with you
[constantly] and will be in you”
  John 14:16-17 Amplified.
  John 14:16-17 Amplified.
  John 14:16-17 Amplified.
  John 14:16-17 Amplified.
  John 14:16-17 Amplified.
From the Scripture above, the Amplified
27
Version shows us six synonyms for the word
translated ‘Comforter’ from its Greek expression,
‘Allos Parakletos.’
The word ‘another’ in the first place, translated
from the Greek ‘Allos’ is very instructive. You see,
the Greek language used two words which the English
commonly translated ‘another’ These two words are
‘Heteros’ and ‘Allos.’
Properly expressed, ‘heteros’ meant another of
a different kind, while ‘Allos’ meant another of the
same kind. In referring to the Holy Spirit, Jesus called
Him “allos” - ‘another One of the same kind,’ thus
inferring the Holy Spirit to be exactly like Him. So
the Holy Spirit is exactly like Jesus. He looks like Him,
loves like Him, cares like Him and talks like Him.
This is the Holy Spirit sent by the Father to be with
us.
All seven words - Comforter, Counselor,
Helper, Intercessor, Advo-cate, Strengthener and
Standby – rendered from the Greek ‘parakletos’ help
to show us the ministry of the Holy Spirit in our lives.
The Seven-Fold Ministry Of The Holy Spirit In Your Life
28
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
When the Holy Spirit comes into your life, He
becomes your Lawyer, Helper and Intercessor.
You know, you can have an intercessor who’s
praying for you from somewhere afar off or in the
background. What kind of intercessor is the Holy
Spirit? He’s not the kind of intercessor that’s
somewhere in the background; He’s right there with
you and in you!
The Amplified Bible gives us other words to
support this. It says He’s our Advocate and Standby
– this means the Holy Spirit is the kind of intercessor
that stands ready as our advocate or counsel for the
defence. Jesus was talking about Someone Who
engages our adversaries, Someone Who steps right
into the middle of the heat and takes charge with
us, not someone watching from somewhere in the
background.
He also says the Holy Spirit is our Strengthener;
so while He’s taking His own steps to ensuring
everything works out for our good, He’s also making
sure we’re participating by strengthening us, for He
29
has to function through us. When you have the Holy
Ghost, weakness will not be a part of your life. No
wonder Paul said, “When I am weak, then am I
strong” (2 Corinthians 12:10). In other words, when
he’d been bruised, battered and broken down by
external factors, he was made even stronger by the
power of the Holy Ghost.
The last word the Amplified Bible uses to
describe the Holy Spirit is ‘Standby.’ He’s your
Standby. Think of it this way: Many companies and
homes in developing countries have a ‘standby
generator.’ When there’s an outage from the main
power supply, the standby generator is switched on,
power is supplied and businesses and activities can
continue to run normally. That’s what the Holy Spirit
does for you. When you run out of strength,
information, ideas, options and everything else you
know, there’s a Standby, and He never fails, glory to
God!
Our lives should always be full of joy and
excitement. We’ve got a Helper, Comforter,
The Seven-Fold Ministry Of The Holy Spirit In Your Life
30
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
Intercessor, Advocate, Counsellor, Strengthener and
Standby. How could we lose? It’s impos-sible!The
trouble with a lot of God’s children is that they’re
not informed of things like this, and many don’t know
how to operate in the realm of the Spirit.
We’re not a group of people seeking help from
God; we’ve been given a Helper. We’re not alone,
we have One called alongside us to help us. That’s
the ministry of the Holy Spirit; He’s been called to
go with us.
You’ll be wrong to look at us born again, Spirit-
filled folks and think that all you see is all there is
about us. Make no mistakes about it! There’s
Someone Who’s not only with us, He’s also in us!
You may not see Him with your optical eyes, but
He’s right there. In fact, He’s more present than our
adversaries.
The Psalmist calls Him a very present help in
trouble (Psalm 46:1). When he said ‘a very present
help,’ he wasn’t saying there are some other helps
apart from Him. He just wants us to know, by
31
attaching the ‘very’ to the ‘present help,’ that he’s
referring to a definite article, in spite of the generic
tone that the ‘a’ gives it. He could simply have said
He’s ‘a present help’ in trouble, but instead of just
saying that, he strengthens it by saying He’s ‘a very
present help.’
In other words, it’s something you shouldn’t
doubt at all. You don’t have to look for Him; He’s a
very present help in trouble. This means if you ever
get into trouble, you might as well laugh and say,
“Thank You Holy Spirit, I’m not alone!”
The Seven-Fold Ministry Of The Holy Spirit In Your Life
The first thing the Holy Spirit will do in your
life when He comes to dwell in you is to give you
understanding. This understanding helps you receive
the message of Jesus Christ. It helps you receive God’s
Word into your spirit. Then you won’t be like people
who’re always asking such silly questions as: “How
could Jesus have been born of a virgin?” or “How
can you say that God raised Jesus from the dead?”
He Will Give You
Understanding
Chapter Three
Chapter Three
Chapter Three
Chapter Three
Chapter Three
34
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
You no longer ask such questions because you
just understand it. You simply believe Jesus was born
of a virgin and was raised from the dead, because
the Holy Spirit has helped you understand it.
In John 15:26, Jesus said,
“But when the Comforter is come,
whom I will send unto you from the
Father, even the Spirit of truth,
which proceedeth from the Father,
he shall testify of me.”
The Holy Spirit testifies of the Lord Jesus and
helps you easily believe the gospel. He gives you an
understanding mind. In John 20:22, the Bible tells
us that after His resurrection, Jesus stood before His
disciples and breathed on them (another version says
He blew on them), and when He did that, He said,
“Receive the Holy Spirit.”
Luke 24:45 fills us in with more details of what
transpired. It lets us know that after He had said that,
He opened their understanding. That’s exactly what
35
happened when He blew on them – the Holy Spirit
came upon them and opened their understanding
so they could receive the Word of God and
understand it.
Job 32:8 (Amp.) says, “But there is [a vital
force] a spirit [of intelligence] in man, and the
breath of the Almighty gives men understanding.”
When the Holy Spirit comes into your life, He
gives you understanding so you’re no longer in the
dark about God’s Word. Every time you hear the
Word of God or study the Bible, you’ll understand,
because the Holy Spirit has given you understanding.
Now, not only do you understand the Word of God,
no matter where you are, where you go or what you
do, you’ll have an understanding mind and heart.
Do you remember the prayer of Solomon when
he became king of Israel? The Bible says God spoke
to him in a dream and asked him, “Solomon, what
do you want Me to do for you?” Solomon answered
and said, “Oh God, give me wisdom and an
understanding heart” (1 Kings 3:9). You see, he asked
He Will Give You Understanding
36
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
God for wisdom and understanding. Now in the New
Covenant, when you receive the Holy Spirit, you
automatically receive understanding, The Holy Spirit
is the secret of understanding, Hallelujah!
37
When the Holy Spirit comes into your life
and you allow Him take charge of your life, He’ll
bring in the anointing. The anointing of God’s Spirit
will come upon everything you do. Understand what
it is to be anointed: the word ‘anoint’ comes from
the Hebrew word ‘MASHACH.’ It means ‘to smear
or rub.’ This signifies that the presence of God is so
smeared or rubbed on you like oil, that His presence
Chapter F
Chapter F
Chapter F
Chapter F
Chapter Four
our
our
our
our
  He Will Bring The
Anointing Into Your Life
38
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
is left on you, causing divine excellence and power.
When you’re anointed, you become blessed
of God such that everything you touch or do
prospers. To be ‘blessed’ means to be empowered to
prosper.
The anointing is the empowerment of the Holy
Spirit in our lives. It’s the supernatural ability the Holy
Spirit brings into our lives that cannot be explained.
Suddenly, the Holy Spirit takes over your spirit and
puts power within you that enables you see, think,
say and do things ordinary men can’t. This is the work
of the anointing – it guides and leads you in
everything you do.
Let me remind you at this point that Man is a
spirit, he has a soul and lives in a body. Now, the
real person is the spirit. With your spirit you contact
the spiritual realm. Your body that you see is not the
real you, it’s just the house where you ( your spirit)
live. With your body you contact the physical realm.
Your soul is what you use to function intellectually.
That’s where your reasoning faculties and emotions
39
are; that’s  where your thinking and decision-making
take place. With it you contact the mental realm.
Your spirit, however, is the real you. That’s the one
who relates with God.
When the Holy Spirit comes to dwell in your
spirit, He gives life to your spirit. Then He also anoints
your spirit and your mind. He gives you
understanding and blesses your spirit so that you’re
divinely energized from within.
In Philippians 4:13, Paul said, “I can do all
things through Christ which strengtheneth me.” When
he said ‘Christ’ here, he wasn’t talking about the Man
Jesus. ‘Christ’ here refers to the Anointed One and
His anointing. It’s talking about the supernatural
empowerment Jesus received that made Him the
Christ when the Holy Spirit came upon Him.
Now Paul says, “I can do all things through
Christ which strengthens me.” Praise the Lord Jesus!
This means when the Holy Spirit comes into your
life, He will anoint you and make it possible for you
to do the impossible. You will receive the ability to
He Will Bring The Anointing Into Your Life
40
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
do things  you ordinarily wouldn’t be able to do. He
will fill your spirit with the unction of God.
In Acts 1:8, Jesus said,
“But ye shall receive power, after that
the Holy Ghost is come upon you:
and ye shall be witnesses unto me
both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea,
and in Samaria, and unto the utter-
most part of the earth.”
When the Holy Spirit comes into your life, you
receive power. The word ‘power’ as it is used here in
Acts 1:8 refers to the dynamic ability to cause
changes. The Lord Jesus tells us we shall receive that
dynamic ability to cause changes when the Holy
Ghost comes into our lives. This means, if the
circumstances of your life don’t favour you, you can
change them. That’s what it is to be a child of God.
As a child of God, you should never be
disadvantaged in life or subject to circumstances!
41
GOD GIVES BIRTH TO GODS!
Every creature reproduces after its kind. A dog
gives birth to dogs, a cat gives birth to cats, a cow
gives birth to cows, a monkey reproduces monkeys
and a human reproduces humans. So when God
gives birth, what do you think He’ll reproduce? gods,
of course!
When God created Man, He created him in
His image and after His likeness. That’s why we look
like Him; we have two hands the same way He has
two hands. We have two legs, one head, one mouth,
one nose, two ears and two eyes just like Him.
When someone gives his heart to Christ and
becomes born again, he receives the divine nature.
His spirit is imparted with the eternal life of Almighty
God and he becomes one like Him – His very
offspring. The Bible says in James 1:18, “Of his own
will begat he us with the word of truth…” and in 1
Peter 1:23, “Being born again, not of corruptible
seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God,
which liveth and abideth for ever.”
He Will Bring The Anointing Into Your Life
42
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
The Bible also says, “Therefore if any man be
in Christ, he is a new creature: old things are passed
away; behold, all things are become new” (2
Corinthians 5:17), Hallelujah!
Now that we’re born again and partakers of His
divine nature (2 Peter 1:4), the life of God has taken
up residence in our spirits. We’re not what we used
to be; we may look the same way we used to look
on the outside, but on the inside, we’re new
creatures, born again and filled with the Spirit of God!
When God gives birth, you can’t expect Him
to produce a failure. That’s inconsistent with His
nature.
“Pastor Chris, are you saying we are gods?”
Well, I’m not the one who said it; God Himself
said so in His Word: “I have said ye are gods; and all
of you are children of  the most high (Psalm 82:6).
If God gave birth to you, what do you think you are?
You must be a god under Him! He’s Papa God, and
we’re His kids. Children of God ought to be gods.
Come to think of it, if you can change the
43
circumstances of your life, you must be a god! So
God is training us just as a daddy trains his kids,
because we belong to Him.
He wants us to understand the anointing that
we have received and how it operates. Then we’ll
be able to take full advantage of it to cause the
desired changes in our lives and circumstances.
He Will Bring The Anointing Into Your Life
44
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
45
When the Holy Spirit comes into your life,
He becomes your Teacher who teaches you from
the inside. The Psalmist declares in Psalm 119:98,
“Thou through thy commandments hast made me
wiser than mine enemies…”
David was talking about God the Holy Spirit
and what He was able to accomplish in his life
He Will Teach You
All Things
Chapter  Five
Chapter  Five
Chapter  Five
Chapter  Five
Chapter  Five
46
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
through the Word of God. He said the Holy Spirit,
through His commandments, had made him wiser
than his enemies. Then he went on to say, “…for they
(His commandments) are ever with me. I have more
understanding than all my teachers: for thy
testimonies are my meditation. I understand more
than the ancients, because I keep thy precepts”
(Psalm 119:98-100).
He’s letting you know the Holy Spirit can make
you wiser than the ancients (wise old men) and even
your enemies. He’ll do it by teaching you from within.
He’ll show you the secrets of life and tell you what
to do. He’ll guide you from within and make you
wiser than others around you.
Here’s what Jesus said about the Holy Spirit in
John 14:26:
“But the Comforter, which is the
Holy Ghost, whom the Father will
send in my name, he shall teach you
all things, and bring all things to
your remembrance…”
47
This is wonderful! It means you’ll no longer be
called a fool, because the Holy Spirit will teach you
all things. He’s not only going to teach you things in
the Bible, but also all the things about life. He’s
already given you understanding. He’s anointed you;
now He’s your Teacher, glory to God! No one can
call you a fool anymore, because you have a Teacher
inside you Who teaches you all things. If you listen
to Him, He’ll show you what to do.
Let me show you a very important verse in the
Bible:
Psalm 16:11:
salm 16:11:
salm 16:11:
salm 16:11:
salm 16:11:
“Thou wilt shew me the path of life:
in thy presence is fulness of joy; at
thy right hand there are pleasures for
evermore.”
As your Teacher, the Holy Spirit will show you
the path of life. By yourself you do not and cannot
know the path of life. The Bible says in Proverbs
14:12, “There is a way which seemeth right unto a
He Will Teach You All Things
48
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
man, but the end thereof are the ways of death.”
The way that seems right to you ends up in death
and destruction, but when the Holy Spirit takes over
your life, He’ll show you the path of life, glory to God!
Isaiah 48:17:
Isaiah 48:17:
Isaiah 48:17:
Isaiah 48:17:
Isaiah 48:17:
“Thus saith the Lord, thy Redeemer,
the Holy One of Israel; I am the Lord
thy God which teacheth thee to
profit, which leadeth thee by the way
that thou shouldest go.”
With the Holy Spirit, you have it made! For you,
life is already successful. He knows something more
about your profession than you will ever know. He
knows about your business better than you do. He
knows all about your family and He can help you
build a wonderful family. He can help you train up
your kids. There are parents who are literally running
mad because of their children, but the Holy Ghost
can help you. He can teach you how to train those
kids. He can teach you anything!
49
The trouble with too many  of us is that we’re
not taking advantage of His presence in our lives.
For example, you want to make more money on your
job or in your business, but you don’t know how.
No, you don’t have to lie and cheat to get ahead in
that job or business. The Holy Spirit can show you
exactly what to do. He can teach you how to make
wealth and you’ll stop losing money or making the
wrong investments.
Maybe your health has been unstable; the Holy
Spirit will teach you how to stay in health. You may
be concerned about your size; maybe you’re too slim
or too fat. The Holy Spirit can show you what to do.
He can teach you all things, and He’s asking, “What
do you want?”
You have a Teacher in you. He lives in you and
He can teach you anything. Why then should you
be confused? That shouldn’t be your lot. You have a
Teacher Who knows all things, and because He lives
in you and teaches you all things, you’re intelligent.
What’s more, He’s able to remind you whatever He
He Will Teach You All Things
50
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
teaches you. That’s why I say you have super-
intelligence!
Someone says, “Well, I don’t know anything. I
just have a little brain and I can’t even think straight.”
That’s an insult to the Spirit of God. The Bible
says we have not received the spirit of timidity or
cowardice but of power, of love and of a sound mind
(2 Timothy 1:7). You have a sound mind, glory to
God!
People from our city – Zion – are not easily
accepted in this world. A lot of times, the world
doesn’t understand the language we speak. They
think we’re proud and braggadocious. But we just
can’t talk like them. We can’t say, “I’m poor” or “I’m
just average.” No Sir, we couldn’t be! We know who
we are – We’re rich, we’re excellent, we’re powerful
and influencial because we’ve got the Holy Ghost
on the inside. He is the One Who illuminates our
minds and teaches us wondrous things from God’s
Word, Hallelujah!
51
The man without the Holy Spirit is like sheep
without a shepherd; an aircraft without a pilot; a ship
lost at sea, without a captain. The man without the
Holy Spirit is a man walking in darkness. He’s lost
and without a sense of direction, until the Holy Spirit
comes into his life.
The Holy Spirit is the Ultimate Guide. When
He comes to live in you, not only does He teach
He Will Guide You
Chapter  Six
Chapter  Six
Chapter  Six
Chapter  Six
Chapter  Six
52
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
you, He also guides you in the affairs of life. Jesus
showed us this in John 16:13 when He said,
“Howbeit when he, the Spirit of
truth, is come, he will guide you into
all truth: for he shall not speak of
himself; but whatsoever he shall hear,
that shall he speak: and he will shew
you things to come.”
You will no longer be deceived, for the Holy
Spirit will guide you into all truth – He will guide
you into all reality. Someone may deceive you for a
short time, but he cannot completely deceive you
for too long. Why? The Holy Spirit in your life will
guide you, He will show you what is real.
This is something He does inside you. He
guides and leads you from within. The Bible says,
“For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they
are the sons of God” (Romans 8:14). Just to think
about this is exciting. Do you remember how God
brought the children of Israel out of Egypt? Let’s read
53
how David recounts it:
Psalm 105:7:
salm 105:7:
salm 105:7:
salm 105:7:
salm 105:7:
“He brought them forth also with
silver and gold: and there was not
one feeble person among their tribes.”
Can you imagine this! No grandma had to be
supported by her son. No grandpa had to be carried
by anybody. Everybody was strong enough to carry
his own stuff and move on his own. This is the
testimony of God – He brought them forth with silver
and gold and there was not one feeble person among
their tribes. This is talking about financial prosperity
and health. Nobody was broke, nobody had a stroke.
There wasn’t anybody who was paralysed or
impotent.
Let’s read verse 38:
“Egypt was glad when they departed:
for the fear of them fell upon them.”
Wow! The Egyptians were so afraid of the
He Will Guide You
54
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
children of Israel, they gave them everything of value
they had and quickly sent them on their way. Boy,
how so relieved they were to see them leave their
land!
I tell you it’s going to be the same way in the
last days. Don’t you ever think that when Jesus shows
up at the rapture, we’ll be escaping from here, saying,
“Phew, thank You Jesus, we’re out of that place!”
No, sir! We’re not going to be escaping from here.
We’re not going to be delivered from here at the
rapture. Why, we would have lived so victoriously
and subdued and dealt with this world to the extent
that there won’t be any reason for us to be here
anymore!
Mark my words, we don’t have too many years
left to do that! That’s the reason for the teaching of
the Word of God. That’s why God is bringing you
this message. I’ve known and lived by the truths I’m
sharing with you in this book for many years. Now,
through the Spirit, God has allowed me share them
with you, and that’s because the time is short!
55
What you ought to do now is take up this
message, stand by it, use it and begin to live in victory.
Let’s look at some more of David’s account of
Israel’s departure from Egypt:
Psalm 105:38-45:
salm 105:38-45:
salm 105:38-45:
salm 105:38-45:
salm 105:38-45:
“Egypt was glad when they departed:
for the fear of them fell upon them.
He spread a ‘cloud’ for a covering;
and ‘fire’ to give light in the night.
The people asked, and he brought
quails, and satisfied them with the
bread of heaven. He opened the rock,
and the waters gushed out; they ran
in the dry places like a river. For he
remembered his holy promise, and
Abraham his servant. And he brought
forth his people with joy, and his
chosen with gladness: And gave them
the lands of the heathen: and they
inherited the labour of the people;
That they might observe his statutes,
He Will Guide You
56
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
and keep his laws. Praise ye the
Lord.”
The ‘cloud’ and the ‘fire’ refer to the Holy
Ghost, and this whole passage shows us how He
guarded and guided the Israelites throughout their
sojourn in the wilderness. He provided for them and
protected them against all their enemies.
That was back in the Old Testament. How
much more does God, through His Holy Spirit, help
and bless us today who are partakers of the New
Covenant. You see, you’re a blessed person. In your
office, the results you get ought to be greater than
the results of the ordinary man. Your results ought to
be blessed. The way you do things ought to be
different; it ought to speak of excellence because
there’s a light shinning on your path and the Spirit of
excellence dwells within you. You only have to make
up your mind that that’s the way it’s going to be,
and it’s going to be just that way.
If you thought you had seen some increase in
your life, you’ve not seen anything yet. Wait till
57
you’re through reading this book! Your life will never
be the same again. As you begin to walk with this
mighty Spirit of God I’m talking about and allow Him
to operate in your life, you will experience
supernatural peace, prosperity and great
development in every area of your life.
When the Holy Spirit comes to live within you,
He not only seals up the life of God that you’ve
received (Ephesians 1:13; 4:30), He makes it work!
He makes you a child of God in truth and reality and
leads you on in this new life.
Romans 8:11 tells us He is “...the Spirit...that
raised up Jesus from the dead...” Nobody was ever
raised from the dead without a prophet praying for
him. No one ever came out of the grave all by himself.
But Jesus did through the power of the Holy Ghost!
For three days and three nights, He was in the belly
of the earth, and the Bible says He was raised from
the dead by ‘the glory of the Father.’
What, or rather, who is ‘the glory of the Father’?
It’s the Holy Spirit! Remember, we read in Psalm 105
He Will Guide You
58
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
verse 39 that the children of Israel were covered with
a cloud that led them in the daytime (see also Psalm
78:14). That ‘glory cloud’ was the Holy Spirit! So
when Paul wrote in Romans 8:11 that Jesus was
raised from the dead by ‘the glory of the Father,’ he
was referring to the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is the
manifestation of the glory of God!
59
There are people who take drugs, because
when they do, they get high and feel they can do
absolutely anything and even be superhuman.
Sometimes some people get drunk and start
staggering around, totally oblivious of where they
are or what they’re doing.
Well, let me tell you something, child of God:
 He Will Cause You To
Do Right!
Chapter  Seven
Chapter  Seven
Chapter  Seven
Chapter  Seven
Chapter  Seven
60
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
You don’t need drugs; you don’t need nicotine,
cocaine, heroin, marijuana or alcohol. What you
need is the Holy Ghost! When the Holy Ghost takes
over your spirit, your soul and your body, you’re
changed forever.
In Ezekiel 36:27 the Bible says,
“And I will put my spirit within
you, and cause you to walk in
my statutes, and ye shall keep my
judgments, and do them.”
In this Scripture, God is saying He will bring
the Holy Ghost into your life, Who will give you the
ability and capacity to obey Him and do His Will.
You’ll no longer struggle to please God or do right.
You won’t need to try to do His will anymore.
God said, “I will put My Spirit within you and
cause you to do My will. I will cause you to obey
My statutes, to walk in My statutes and follow My
judgements.” In other words, when you find yourself
going in the street and the Holy Ghost suddenly says
61
to you, “Stop! Turn left,” you would have responded
ever before you had the time to reason it out.
When the Holy Ghost comes into your life,
everything you do turns into success. You know,
some people don’t understand how we’re able to
draw the large crowds that attend our services and
crusades. They think it’s the result of good pub-licity.
No, it’s not the publicity in itself that draws the
crowds, it’s the Holy Ghost! The publicity we do is
anointed by the Holy Ghost. When we release
handbills and invitation cards or put a promo on
television to advertise a programme, they’re anointed
by the Holy Ghost.
So when we invite people, they’re anointed by
the same Holy Ghost, Who causes them to come.
Many of them don’t know why they’re coming, but
they all just keep coming. They come out of their
homes, offices and shops, because of the Holy Ghost,
glory to God!
Now let me tell you something: The same
power of the Holy Ghost that pulls people into our
He Will Cause You To Do Right
62
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
meetings without many of them even knowing why
they’re coming will begin to pull success and favour
into your life. Do you know why? It’s because God
loves people and loves to bless people. That’s why
He brought you into this world – to bless you and to
favour you. That’s why He gave you the Holy Ghost,
Who causes you to do the right things that release
the blessing and the favour of God upon your life.
63
When the Holy Ghost comes into you, He
will bring colour and beauty into your life. Oh, how
I wish I had a way to express this to you even more
strongly! But let me repeat that so it can sink into
your spirit: If the Holy Ghost finds a vent in you, if
He finds a way to express Himself in your life, He
will bring beauty and favour into your life.
Life is actually full of beauty. Life is full of joy.
   He Will Bring Colour Into
Your Life
Chapter Eight
Chapter Eight
Chapter Eight
Chapter Eight
Chapter Eight
64
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
You can experience all the beauty and joy life has to
offer. Only let the Holy Spirit show you how. Some
people think that if they’re successful in business
they’ll be happy. Then, they become successful and
they’re still not happy. Some think that if they have
a lot of money, they’ll be happy, but when they get
all the money they want, they’re still unhappy.
Some others think that if they get married to a
successful person they’ll be happy, and then they
get married to someone they think is successful and
are still unhappy. Still some others think if they have
children they’ll be happy, then they have children
but remain as unhappy as ever. So they say, “Alright,
maybe I should build a house.” They build a mansion
and they’re still unhappy!
Another thought occurs to them, “Maybe I
should go back to school and get a better degree.”
They go to the best schools and obtain even more
prestigious degrees than they had before but are still
unhappy. They continually wonder about their lives
and what they should do with it. They’re in an endless
65
but fruitless search for something that will make their
lives more enjoyable and fulfilling.
If any of these describes you, I know just what,
actually, Who you need. You need the Holy Spirit.
The Holy Spirit is the beauty of God. The Bible says,
“By His Spirit the heavens He beautified…” (Job
26:13 Young’s Literal Translation). The beauty of
God’s creation was produced by the Holy Spirit.
“In the beginning God created the
heaven and the earth. And the earth
was without form, and void; and
darkness was upon the face of the
deep…”
                               Genesis 1:1-2.
In other words, the earth had become a chaotic
mass, and darkness was upon the face of the deep.
Then it goes on to tell us:
“…And the Spirit of God moved
upon the face of the waters”
                                      
   
   
   
    Verse 2.
He will Bring Colour Into Your Life
66
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
There was darkness in the earth; it was formless
and empty, but as the Spirit of God began to move
over that darkness and emptiness, as He brooded
upon it, the Bible says,
“And God said, Let there be light:
and there was light”
                                Genesis 1:3.
Genesis 1:3.
Genesis 1:3.
Genesis 1:3.
Genesis 1:3.
Here’s what happened: When God said, “Let
there be light,” the Holy Spirit swung into action
(remember, all this time He had been brooding upon
the face of the waters) and brought forth light!
If there’s darkness in your life; if your life is
formless and colourless, and you’ve been wondering
what to do with it; if you’ve been struggling so hard
to make something out of your life, it’s time to quit
struggling! The Lord Jesus said,
“Come unto me, all ye that labour
(struggle)
(struggle)
(struggle)
(struggle)
(struggle) and are heavy laden
(saddled with a lot of burden)
(saddled with a lot of burden)
(saddled with a lot of burden)
(saddled with a lot of burden)
(saddled with a lot of burden), and I
will give you rest”
67
                       Matthew 11:28.
  Matthew 11:28.
  Matthew 11:28.
  Matthew 11:28.
  Matthew 11:28.
Jesus says to you today, “I know what you’re
looking for, and I’ll give it to you. Come and I will
give you rest from your struggles, wars and
frustrations.” Hallelujah!
The Holy Ghost has brought so much beauty
into my life. I’m full of the Holy Ghost. What a life it
is with the Holy Ghost! Oh, how I wish you could
see the life you should be living with the Holy Spirit.
If you have the Holy Spirit dwelling in you, He’ll bring
the beauty of God into your heart and your life. Your
life will be so full of colour that those around you
will begin to wonder what you’re doing that makes
you so special.
Remember, He made King David’s life so
beautiful, he had to declare, “God, You’ve made me
a wonder to my generation!” (Psalm 71:7). The Holy
Ghost wants to make you a wonder to your
generation; He wants to make you a wonder to your
world. Let Him take His place in your life and He’ll
bring in all of His glory and beauty.
He will Bring Colour Into Your Life
68
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
This is the sixth thing the Holy Spirit will do in
your life –  to bring colour and beauty into your life.
Isaiah said He’ll give you beauty for ashes (Isaiah
61:3). Instead of shame, there’ll be beauty in your
life. People will look at you and see the favour of
God upon your life, because of the Holy Spirit.
The Bible says about Jesus that He was full of
grace and truth (John 1:14). Jesus was full of grace.
Grace is the beauty of God that flows from the inside
and can be seen on the outside. It resides in you.
That’s what the Holy Spirit brings into your life in
overflowing measure when you let Him have His
place in you.
69
And if Christ be in you, (though)
(though)
(though)
(though)
(though)
the body is dead because of sin; but
the Spirit is life (the Holy Spirit gives
(the Holy Spirit gives
(the Holy Spirit gives
(the Holy Spirit gives
(the Holy Spirit gives
it life)
it life)
it life)
it life)
it life) because of righteousness. But
if the Spirit of him that raised up
Jesus from the dead dwell in you, he
that raised up Christ from the dead
shall also quicken (vitalize)
(vitalize)
(vitalize)
(vitalize)
(vitalize) your
 He Will Vitalize Your
Mortal Body
Chapter Nine
Chapter Nine
Chapter Nine
Chapter Nine
Chapter Nine
70
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
mortal bodies by his Spirit that
dwelleth in you”
                          Romans 8:10-11.
   Romans 8:10-11.
   Romans 8:10-11.
   Romans 8:10-11.
   Romans 8:10-11.
Paul the apostle said, “If the Spirit of Him that
raised Jesus from the dead lives in you, that same
Spirit will vitalize your mortal body. Even if your body
had been paralysed, if the Spirit of Him that raised
Jesus from the dead comes to dwell in you, He will
drive away the paralysis and vitalize your body.”
If that same Spirit that raised Jesus from the
dead lives in you, He will destroy the cancer. He will
get rid of the tumour and drive every demon out of
your body! If that Spirit dwells in your body, the HIV
will leave; the diabetes will die. The deaf ears will be
unstopped and the blindness will go, becasue He
will vitalize your mortal body, Hallelujah!
That’s why I’m telling you your suffering is
unnecessary. Your poverty is unnecessary. Your
struggling is unnecessary. You don’t need to struggle
or suffer anymore. You don’t need to be poor
71
anymore. If that same Spirit lives in you, He will make
you a success.
Back in the days of the early Church recorded
in the Scriptures, it was so important for people to
receive the Holy Spirit. I wonder why so many
Christians today seem not to care a hoot about the
Holy Ghost. Many who have received Him don’t
even know Who He is.
But thank God, through this book, you’re
discovering Who the Holy Spirit is and what He will
do when He comes into your life. One of the things
the Spirit of God will do in your life when He comes
to live in you is to bring the fire and the glory of God
into your life, and to vitalize your mortal body.
“STAND UPRIGHT ON THY
FEET!”
Acts 14:8-11:
Acts 14:8-11:
Acts 14:8-11:
Acts 14:8-11:
Acts 14:8-11:
“And there sat a certain man at Lystra,
impotent in his feet, being a cripple
He Will Vitalise Your Mortal Body
72
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
from his mother’s womb, who never
had walked: The same heard Paul
speak: who stedfastly beholding him,
and perceiving that he had faith to
be healed, Said with a loud voice,
Stand upright on thy feet. And he
leaped and walked. And when the
people saw what Paul had done, they
lifted up their voices, saying in the
speech of Lycaonia, The gods are
come down to us in the likeness of
men.”
In this portion of Scripture, Paul was preaching
at Lystra, and while he was preaching, there was a
man listening to him, who was impotent in his feet
and had never walked from birth. He sat there
listening intently as Paul preached this same message
of the regenerating power of the Holy Spirit that I’m
sharing with you. When  he heard it, he believed it,
and Paul looked at him and said, “Man, stand up!”
Right away, the cripple sprang up on his feet and
73
began to walk! Paul didn’t have to pray for him.
You see, if you’re a child of God and you have
the Holy Ghost, you don’t need to be prayed for
anymore. You have the eternal life of Almighty God
travelling through your veins and the indwelling
presence of His Spirit. That’s all you need to overcome
the devil, sickness, disease and infirmity.
The Bible says in John 1:12-13, “But as many
as received him, to them gave he power to become
the sons of God, even to them that believe on his
name:Which were born, not of blood, nor of the
will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.”
This is the reason sickness shouldn’t be able to travel
through your body when you’re born again, because
your life is no longer the life of blood!
In Leviticus 17:11, the Bible says the life of the
flesh is in the blood, but when you’re born again,
the life of your body is no longer in your blood but
in your spirit.
Remember Romans 8:11 says, “But if the Spirit
He Will Vitalise Your Mortal Body
74
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in
you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall
also quicken your mortal bodies by his Spirit that
dwelleth in you.” That same Spirit that raised Christ
from the dead dwells in you and He  gives life to
your mortal body. So you do not live by blood
anymore, but by the power of the Holy Ghost Who
strenghtens, energizes and gives life to your physical
body.
75
I I I I I have some very important questions to ask
you as you read through the few pages remaining in
this book:
Why should you continue in your situation after
having read this book? Why should you continue to
suffer the way you do? Why should your life still be
full of struggles?
Chapter T
Chapter T
Chapter T
Chapter T
Chapter Ten
en
en
en
en
A Final Word
76
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
You may have been struggling all your life.
Everything you have in your life may have come to
you through much toil and struggle. You may even
have thought before reading this book that it’s
impossible to receive anything worthwhile without
struggling for it.
I’m sure the message in this book has changed
your perception and changed your life. Why, the
Holy Spirit is the best gift we ever received from God
and we got Him free of charge, without any struggles!
There are two types of people in the world –
those who struggle through life and those who walk
through life in blessing. The latter receive a blessing,
such as is released through the message in this book,
and their lives are changed. The former continue to
struggle because they miss out on the message and
the blessing conveyed in it. You must refuse to be a
struggler or sufferer. God sent His Holy Spirit to you
so you won’t have to struggle or suffer in your life.
Remember, Jesus said, “...ye shall receive
power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you.”
77
When you receive the Holy Spirit, you receive the
power or ‘dynamic ability to cause changes.’ This
means  you can change anything! There’s nothing
you can’t do when you’re full of the Holy Ghost. With
Him, you won’t have to struggle through life
anymore; and you won’t have to be frustrated
anymore, glory to God!
  LET THE SPIRIT ACT ON
THE WORD
God never does anything without His Word.
Don’t ever forget that. His Word is the foundation
for everything. The Bible tells us in Genesis 1:1 that
in the beginning God created the heaven and the
earth, the earth was without form and void and the
Spirit of God moved over the face of the waters. But
even though the Spirit of God was present, nothing
changed until God spoke His Word and said, “Let
there be light!”
It was when God started speaking that the
Spirit of God went to work to bring His Word to pass.
A Final Word
78
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
The Holy Spirit acts on the Word of God to bring it
to pass. That’s why when God speaks, you must
receive His Word. When you do, then the Holy Spirit
acts on the Word of God in your life to bring it to
pass. He will make the Word good in your life and
you’ll have the results it speaks of.
GET FILLED WITH THE SPIRIT!
Ephesians 3:17-18:
Ephesians 3:17-18:
Ephesians 3:17-18:
Ephesians 3:17-18:
Ephesians 3:17-18:
“That Christ may dwell in your
hearts by faith; that ye, being rooted
and grounded in love, May be able
to comprehend with all saints what
is the breadth, and length, and depth,
and height; And to know the love of
Christ, which passeth knowledge,
that ye might be filled with all the
fulness of God.”
Ephesians 5:18:
Ephesians 5:18:
Ephesians 5:18:
Ephesians 5:18:
Ephesians 5:18:
“And be not drunk with wine, wherein
is excess; but be filled with the
79
Spirit;”
 In Ephesians chapter five and verse eighteen,
we’re instructed not to be drunk with wine wherein
is excess but be filled with the Holy Ghost. Now,
that’s talking along the same lines as the eighteenth
verse of the third chapter where it says, “that ye might
be filled with the fullness of God.”
God wants us filled with all of His fullness. This
is what is really meant by being filled with the Spirit.
It means to be filled with the fullness of God. It’s one
thing to have God, it’s another thing to be filled with
His fullness. To be filled with His fullness means to
be filled with His completeness.
For the Holy Spirit to live in a man means for
that man to have all of the life and nature of God in
him. When the Holy Spirit indwells a human person,
He makes him uncon-querable, indomitable! He
makes him more than a man. He infuses his humanity
with the life and power of Divinity. This is what
changes a man completely.
A Final Word
80
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
Joel, the Old Testament prophet foretold:
“And it shall come to pass afterward,
that I will pour out my spirit upon
all flesh; and your sons and your
daughters shall prophesy, your old
men shall dream dreams, your young
men shall see visions: And also upon
the servants and upon the handmaids
in those days will I pour out my
spirit”
                                 Joel 2:28-29.
Joel 2:28-29.
Joel 2:28-29.
Joel 2:28-29.
Joel 2:28-29.
When he said, “Your sons and your daughters
shall prophesy,” he meant they shall speak ‘words of
power.’ In other words, what they say shall come to
pass. When you’re filled with the Holy Spirit, your
words cease to be the words of men; they become
anointed with power.
When the Spirit of God is working in you and
you’re overflowing with His fullness, you won’t need
to try to muster boldness to say or do things. You
81
won’t need to try to  stir up some boldness or
remember some Scriptures in the face of adversity.
No! The life you have when you’re filled with the
Holy Spirit is the life of boldness, it’s the life of
dominion over all circumstances.
The Holy Spirit has told us not to be afraid,
because He is with us (Jeremiah 1:8) and He lives in
us. He dwells in us that we might be filled with all
the fullness of God. You ought to have Him in His
fullness, such that when you move, it’s the Spirit of
your Father moving in you. Then, your hands become
His hands and your fingers His fingers. He sees
through your eyes, talks through your mouth and
moves with your body. That’s what He seeks to do
in your life today.
Remember that you’re not of this world. You
have something the prophets and priests of old did
not have. You have the capacity to contain the
fullness of God’s Spirit!
Ephesians 5:18-20:
phesians 5:18-20:
phesians 5:18-20:
phesians 5:18-20:
phesians 5:18-20:
A Final Word
82
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
“And be not drunk with wine, wherein
is excess; but be filled with the Spirit;
Speaking to yourselves in psalms and
hymns and spiritual songs, singing
and making melody in your heart to
the Lord; Giving thanks always for
all things unto God and the Father
in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ;”
From this Scripture, we see the blueprint for
getting filled with the Holy Spirit. If you want to be
filled with the Holy Spirit and experience in your life
these seven vital blessings that He brings, then you
need to start speaking to yourself in psalms and
hymns and spiritual songs. You’ve got to start singing
and making melody in your heart to the Lord. You’ve
got to give thanks to God the Father always for all
things, in the Name of Jesus.
For example, you could begin to thank God
by saying to Him, “Lord, I’m so blessed. I don’t know
how to say it enough but You’ve blessed me so much,
I’m embarrassed! I look into Your Word and I find
83
out you’ve blessed me. Then I look at my life and I
see that I’m realIy, truly blessed. Thank You Lord
Jesus!”
By the time you’re confessing God’s Word and
giving Him thanks like this, you’ll begin to feel the
anointing welling up so strongly within you and the
power of the Holy Ghost will come all over you.
That’s the way I pray, for that’s the way He told
us to pray. Sometimes I say to Him, “Lord, You told
us to be filled with the Spirit, speaking to ourselves
in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Lord, I’m
going to make You some psalms, and sing You some
hymns now...” And when I start doing that, I get full
of God’s Spirit, Hallelujah!
It’s time for you to be filled with the Spirit. Go
ahead and start praying and singing in the Holy
Ghost. Start laughing and dancing in the Spirit. Start
praising God and rejoicing in His presence, for in His
presence there’s fullness of joy. Don’t wait, get in
the flow! God’s Spirit is working right now and you
can get so filled with the Holy Ghost, you’ll be drunk
A Final Word
84
Seven Things The Holy Spirit Will Do In You
with Him! Thank God for these seven things the Holy
Spirit will do in you as you walk with Him daily.
85
